# Podcast Transcript
# Show: Minus One
# Episode: Alexandr Wang, Scale AI, & the Startup Hunger Games
# YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CEebe451GZs
# Downloaded: 2025-07-19 20:35:54

[Music]
so everyone please join me in welcoming
Alex
[Music]
tobc we are very excited to host you
Alice says you know SBC really
specializes in the minus one part of the
founder Journey uh and that really means
you know in in that in that squiggle in
that kind of soup if you will of kind of
like trying out different ideas stress
testing them talking them talking to
people about it um so take us back to
the minus one days of your own Journey
um like did you try out different ideas
before you kind of converged on scale uh
what what were the early days of
ideation and kind of like like for you
yeah so um we did uh we did YC and uh
the first half of our batch I would say
was probably you know we refer to as a
squiggle was sort of like highly there's
a lot of existential angst you don't
really know what you're doing with your
life um and uh and I remember it was
kind of like yeah I remember this time
you like you know you like you have like
these Google Docs of startup ideas and
you like you sort of like keep trying to
come up with more startup ideas I
remember I read Paul Graham's essay um
how to come up with startup ideas um and
that was actually a really good FOC
focusing framework which was I think the
basic ideas you like live in the future
what are the things that exist in the
future and sort of like build backwards
um but uh but yeah it was like I it was
very unclear I think when you're in
certainly when I was in YC and probably
a community like this like there's just
there's a lot of people working a lot of
things around you and so it's very hard
to have any sense of you know what is a
good idea what's an idea that's
worthwhile you sort of also feel like
hey any new idea that I start working on
everybody around me has already been
working on something for a while so I'm
already like you know behind the
eightball just by like starting a new
idea and so there's a lot of like I
think there's a lot of like um you know
uh turmoil associated with all that but
ultimately um we built scale um it was
kind of like it was kind of a perfect
storm I think how it all came together
and I don't think there was sort of
there's just like a lot of serendipity
so I think uh I think the idea more or
less was like you know per the per the
hram framework it's like okay in the
future clearly we're going to
orchestrate um human compute uh much
more dynamically and much more like we
orchestrate any other resource like we
orchestrate compute today and so you're
going to get to a state where human
computation so to speak is uh is as easy
to use an API as anything else and that
API doesn't exist and so you know that
was sort of the original idea for scale
and then um and then after we had the
idea then I spent like you know a night
just looking for a domain um scale
ai.com was available so uh so bought it
um that turned out to be unusually good
decision I think um scale uh has been
turned out to be a really good name uh
and and then we launched on product ton
and it generated like enough traction on
product ton and then there were probably
you know there's probably like after
that maybe like four to six months of
just sort of like you're kind of in this
like wandering mode where you know have
a few customers you're trying to get
more customers I remember um I remember
that like I would I would personally
talk to anybody who'd come into our our
company's intercom so if you were a
visitor on scale ai.com and uh and you
click the little chat bubble you'd end
up talking to me um and uh and so I
remembered like there's like you know it
was this period where it was like very
still very unclear if it was going to
work and then it wasn't until you know 6
months later where we started getting
there was one client who wanted to be
really big and then sort of like the
idea started come into its own but um
but yeah there's probably you know a
year or so of of what I generally call
wandering and uh and I think that's on
the low end honestly of of most startups
so so um let's focus a little bit on
that angsty part um how did you deal
with it did you just because you know
it's easy to it's easy to look back on
it and to kind of like acknowledge it as
like a right of Passage and it's kind of
like a learning process but when you're
in it it [ __ ] sucks so like did
you did you at that point were you able
to in some ways like stare the an in the
face or were you just kind of like I am
along for the ride and it just up and
down every single day every single hour
you know one thing I'll say I don't know
if it sucked more so than other periods
in the future of the company so I think
there's like plenty of times that suck
um when building a company but I think
that the um
I think the main thing that sort of got
me through all of it was sort of
um I think it was I think I think once
we arrived on the idea for scale that I
did really believe like I get a very
high conviction that in the future this
thing will exist and it doesn't exist
right now so then you have like you have
enough of a gradient to go off of at
that point and then you can I think have
a reasonable confidence in the pathway
and like hey at some point I'm gonna
like figure out how like we go from
point A to point B and that's going to
be like this long journey um I think
that uh I think that so that that I
think was like pretty um comforting but
I think in the in the in the process
itself I think um I remember one of the
things that like kept getting in my head
was just like the survival odds in YC
like The Hunger Games like you know 90%
of the companies just die and um but
they don't die for years so you're just
like you know unlike the Hunger Games
where people dying the first day
immediately um for wiv if you're going
to die anyway than five days you might
as well die now yeah exactly well that
was that was kind of the that was the
most terrifying thing I think the most
terrifying idea was that like you could
already be dead but you might only find
out in three years um which uh but but I
think that like I a as I'm a pretty
anxious person and I think I think I
channeled all of the uncertainty into
just you know anxiously doing things and
I think if you if you do that I think a
lot of Founders do that but I think if
you do that then at the very least like
you feel like you're ruding and you're
making progress in a particular
direction do you ever worry I mean
coming back to your point about um for
any idea that you have you know you can
kind of squint and see like 10 people
ostensibly doing something similar um
and I always say that it's if you tend
to get easily psyched out by competition
in the early days then you then you're
in a hard spot
because if you pair that with like
extreme paranoia which a lot of Founders
have that's a deadly combination because
you're never actually going to get over
it so I guess my question to you here is
that mechanical tur kind of existed and
there were some other I guess players
did you did you worry about them or you
like no that that is just not a good
quality product so I know I can do
better yeah um yeah there were a bunch
of things that existed and I think
[Music]
um I think the actual answer here is the
right the right attitude is kind of this
like blustery confidence um and it's
actually pretty interesting I see this
uh I just this conference with uh with
this guy from one of the one of the key
Executives at paler and um he uh he we
were both talking to this government
customer and he said this right in front
of me and he was like you know it's okay
that you guys didn't pick paler but um
you know you're going to come to regret
it and you know it would have been nicer
if you just pick pal from the start and
you'd be way happier and we do a much
better job for you than anybody else
possibly could but um but it's cool that
you guys didn't and uh and you know
you'll come around eventually and
eventually we'll be friends again but
for right now you know it was it was it
was I'm not even exaggerating it was
like a ridiculously aggressive talk
track and um and that's actually a part
of the success uh recipe for paler has
been this sort of like the this like
deep fundamental not particularly ground
I would say but this deep fundamental
belief that you know any software they
build is God's greatest software God's
greatest gift to Earth and uh and nobody
else can build software as good and you
know there's some of that that is a self
reinforcing Loop and so I I mention this
because obviously you know if you're
sort of like a rational third party
bystander you can be like oh that seems
ridiculous and that seems kind of you
know obnoxious but um but I think it's
actually part of the success story which
is I think you need some kind kind of
you know irrational self-belief to be to
believe that you will be able to compete
in the marketplace and over the long run
you know what end what ends up happening
is you need to believe that you can
recruit better than everybody else and
you need to believe you'll make better
product decisions and you need to
believe you'll go the extra mile and
maybe other people don't care as much
and then over the long term those things
will ultimately accumulate to the the
irrational self-belief that you had and
so one of the things that I believed or
that we believed at scale is like I did
a lot of competitive programming
competitions and competitive math
competitions and so I felt you know if I
have to end up competing with people
I'll do just fine you know I've done
plenty of competitions to date and so
you know bring it we're just we're just
going to build the better thing and uh I
remember there was like an 18-year-old
YC founder I talked to um maybe six
months ago and I asked her the same
question I was like oh you know how do
you think about competition and she was
like I think for competition just be
better just do better just be better um
and I think that is you know it's kind
of it's kind of blustery but I think
that really is the answer you just have
to like really believe you're going to
be better um you know that speaking of
that talenter uh anecdote they're just
really
good this is they're actually very good
at making the customers feel as though
that without their software their
business is actually going to be
literally an order of magnitude worse
off right um and this is something I
struggled with at Dropbox because you
know at Dropbox we were like we would
build good software and the software
would speak for itself and every time
you would launch something somebody else
would launch the S launch the same thing
two days later and it took us a while to
understand it's like oh they weren't
actually launching it but they were very
good at talking about it so which
philosophy do you follow at skip do you
like to build the thing or do you like
to sell the thing or do you find a happy
medium I think you have you to both well
at least for what we do so at scale we
have like small number of customers um
they're very large customer
and um and in that world you have to I
think it's like um one way to think
about it is is uh perception is reality
a lot of times and I think you know
probably a lot of the companies that you
all have worked with they very data
driven companies it feels like you know
the truth makes its way um uh the truth
you know everybody serves a shared sense
of reality and whatnot that's not true
at most large companies and also not
true within the government unfortunately
but um at a lot of large customers uh
perception is more real than reality
like the reality is just so ugly most of
the time that very rarely do people
actually confront reality and most of
the time they just sort of choose to
believe the perceptions that they that
they live in so um so what that means is
if you end up doing Enterprise sales or
you end up building Enterprise products
that you have to you know just as much
as your job is to improve the reality it
is to shape the perception and this is I
think uh in some ways pal
um uh one of palente superpowers is that
they shape the perception better than
most other uh technology companies do uh
because they think they view themselves
it's like a combination of a sort of
acting troop combined with a software
company um and I'm not even saying that
you know they they literally give an
acting book to all of the new hir so
they did for a very long time so so I
think what you I think there's something
profound in what you just said because
what if I'm if I'm understanding you
correctly it's that most companies
including the government they're already
living in some perception because the
reality is so painful so your job is not
to actually outsell reality it's to
outsell shitty perception with an even
better
one okay all right sorry you also should
produce value I this is I
just this is like this is like dark arts
on top of if you're build a good product
I think that like fundamentally you also
need to build a good product maybe
switching to you personally uh a little
bit what would I mean you're clearly
very competitive which is great uh and
you have extreme self-belief which is
amazing but apart from those do you had
when you what else would you self
identify as kind of being your 10x
Spike um I think for us the the thing I
think my personal one as well as I think
it's exhibited in a lot of the the key
people at scale it's really sort of
creative problem solving but in the face
of kind of like the least sexy problems
you can imagine so you know a lot of our
a lot of what we have to do is uh is
large scale operations we have you know
hundreds of thousands of contributors
all around the world we have to
coordinate this process of them
producing high quality data for models
and it's a very very unsexy problem but
I think we treat that problem with the
same level of respect that we would you
know let's say a math Olympiad problem
and we apply the same kinds of
techniques we're like okay like what are
the most creative ways that we could
solve this problem how could you break
it down let's like apply a scientific
method towards solving it I think
something a lot of great tech companies
do um but we we hold no sort of uh we
hold no sort of um elevated sense of
purpose of like oh we'll only solve
certain problems you know that we think
about the impact of the problems and so
I think with and then and then we work
like hell you know we work very very
hard and the combination of these things
means that um that's ultimately I think
the recipe that allows us to out compete
all of our um
all the competition which is that we
we're we're smart you know we're good at
problem solving and we also will treat
the sort of like most lowly problems
with the utmost respect um and uh what
that means is over time I think we've
devised some pretty clever operational
Solutions pretty clever technology
pretty clever products um and we all
these things have sort of come together
in a way that it's be very hard you know
I think a lot of times when I look at
other companies or or other startups you
know you have one or the other either
it's an exceptional team but they they
limit themselves artificially towards
you know esoteric problems that are
intellectually interesting um this is a
very common pattern there's a lot of
companies where you have a brilliant
team but they work on um the most
useless problems and then you have and
then you have teams which are like
Scrappy and they'll work on uh they'll
work on really um any problem that that
is given to them but um but they just
don't uh they don't manage to solve the
problems in scalable ways or they don't
figure out how to like abstract the
problems into a way that um enables them
to solve it effectively so the sort of
combination of of you know extremely
strong powerful problem solving or
extremely good sort of scientific
process and techn ability married with
sort of um you know uh full humility
about the problems to solve how did you
I mean that's a
that that those unsexy problems and ones
that are operationally heavy those are
often just the ones that are hard to
kind of motivate people in particularly
in the Bay area but I would say largely
in Silicon Valley to get excited about
so have there been cultural things that
you have tried to Institute at scale
either in hiring or maybe onboarding or
kind of just like the things you talk
about how have you managed to make that
a core part of your of your
DNA yeah so
um well I think the main thing that we
encourage people to think about is you
know you know uh we want we want all our
employees to think about their sort of
like their their net economic impact
much more so than they're sort of like
you know the mo the difficulty of their
technical problems and so I think a lot
of times like in school or um yeah
particularly in school you sort of like
you know you feel like you gain Mastery
by solving more and more technical
problems and that's that's fine but I
think that um uh there's an in
correlation between technical difficulty
and economic value um and it turns out
like a lot of uh a lot of very economic
economically valuable problems are not
super technically difficult but they're
just like there's just like a lot of
hair and you just have to like sift
through a lot of mess and that's I think
where most of the good startup um
opportunities are and um and so for us I
think what what we really motivated um
our staff on is like you know if you
solve this problem effectively than the
net economic impact you just think about
like net economic impact of problems
that you're solving relative to just
technical difficulty um that's the
ladder you want to be climbing and that
that means that you know the unsexy but
very valuable problems end up getting
solved very effectively cool I think I
think Facebook did something pretty
similar as far as I can understand yeah
I mean I think that's it's a good
analogy to Facebook at you know Facebook
we took great pains that Mo in most
companies like especially on the
engineering ladder you tend to get
promoted if you tackle the harder
problems right like the harder the
problem you kind of in some ways there's
a lot of implicit status and respect
accorded to it and at Facebook we would
often kind of be like no we would
actually want to promote the most
productive engineer right like simply
the person who actually tranked out the
most Cod maybe worked on like the least
kind of like sexy problems but maybe
like you know so I think it was a very
conscious like archetype that we
promoted um and lot of the senior
Engineers the more traditional senior
Engineers I think didn't get it they're
like why is this person getting promoted
they worked on like you know just like
kind of you know reducing the number of
errors in our logs by like an order of
magnitude but that shit's easy could I
mean like yeah but somebody's got to do
it you know well um yeah that's a that's
it's a good lesson from Facebook um
let's maybe shifting gears a second
let's talk about
geopolitics
um so what are uh tell us some
predictions that you might have for like
next year as in how you know obviously
the along multiple fronts but certainly
on kind of the technology and the
hardware and chips kind of like I would
say the the cold and the the the warm
war between kind of like the US and
China is definitely heating up so how's
you know do you have any thoughts on
kind of like how that plays out over the
next 12 months and how it might affect
everyone in Silicon Valley yeah so I
think the first thing um to really
observe you know one of the most
meaningful things from a geopolitical
standpoint happened a few weeks ago
which is that um you know opening ey
obviously released 0an some number of
months ago or all preview and the first
replication of the thinking Loop uh so
to speak where the sort of like test
time compute scaling uh came out of
China from Deep seek uh as a deep seek
R1 model and this is like a very
surprising result that the first
replication is not from you know
anthropic or Google or any of the
American compan compes it was an open
source model released out of a Chinese
lab uh what this tells you is is a few
things first I think um there's no Gap
in in research there's basically no
research gap between the leading us labs
and the Chinese Labs so you know they're
basically caught up in terms of
performance and um and it has like
pretty far-reaching implications for how
this plays out going forward and so um
so that was that was kind of like a a a
landmark result probably a few things to
watch I think the first is um which AI
technology gets exported uh more between
the US versus China there will be this
race to see which AI stack so to speak
becomes more globally uh adopted so um
you know uh in the first wave of
Technology the US came out on top so
Google search is is basically globally
dominant except for China um uh social
networking American social networking is
basically dominant everywhere except for
China um then in sort of like the the
second leg of this race when it was more
about hardware and Telco um China
actually came out on top Huawei
technology became pretty widely exported
globally um it was sort of packaged in
with the belt and Road initiatives where
China sort of pretty quickly became the
partner of choice for uh the majority of
countries around the world actually and
now I think AI is kind of the third
phase so you can see that the US Force
the UAE to decide if they want to be on
the sort of like China Huawei stack or
they want to be on the US stack the UAE
for now is picking the US um I think
we're going to see a lot more decisions
um where you know countries are going to
decide are they on the usai stack or the
the um on the Chinese AI stack I don't
think the US even the US from a foreign
policy standpoint doesn't even really
care about being the I stack globally I
think we most we care about being the I
stack to some of our partners but not
all the partners that'll be one war that
that happens and the other one that
happens is you know the thing to really
watch is the uh export controls so one
of the most important things that the
Biden ad men did um is they launched
very restrictive export controls on
chips so there's maybe like one 100th
the number of highend G uh highend gpus
in China versus the United States
because we don't let them to we don't
let them buy them and they also don't
have ASM Asm all machines and they don't
have all the sort of precursors to
enable them to actually build the build
the chip industry um with President
Trump coming in and and with uh with
sort of new players in the field I think
one of the questions I think one of the
biggest questions is um are we going to
maintain a hard line on the export
controls um I think we certainly should
that's one of the biggest things that's
enabling us to maintain a strong
advantage and um what is that
negotiation going to look like because
there's the looming threat is by 2027
president XI and the CCP have said they
want to take Taiwan so and they they've
asked the military to prepare um the
people Li Liberation Army to prepare to
take Taiwan by 2027 so there's this
looming date three years from now um uh
by which you know China's at least the
CCP is at Le saying if they'll take um
they'll take Taiwan and uh as soon as
president Trump gets into seege and gets
inaugurated January 20th that's going to
start the clock on the negotiations
which is can can we prevent China from
taking that action or prevent China from
blowing out PSNC or you know prevent the
sort of catastrophic scenario and what
do we need to give an exchange and I
think that will be you know whether it's
the headline or it's like a lowgrade
kind of um negotiation over time that is
the big picture thing that we'll watch
over the next few years and
ultimately I think there's like too much
incentive in the world like World War II
will be a averted I don't think there's
any interest to get into a hot War but I
think we need to watch like um what are
we GNA have to give in exchange for them
not invading and not taking over the the
the semiconductor
industry maybe coming back to your point
about the AI stack and what um you know
whether essentially like sovereign
states or companies around the world
will pick a western kind of AI stack
versus kind of a Chinese stack um
curious like do you think it's actually
possible for us to affect that by
anything other than actually innovating
in our Labs I will admit though to your
point it has been a little surprising
that after the inference time compute
it's kind of been what like eight weeks
8 10 weeks that we haven't seen an
equivalent release by some of the other
major Labs which has actually really
surprised me because my initial take was
that this feels
somewhat somewhat like easy to replicate
just like hey just throw a bunch of like
more INF time essentially like loops on
kind of like um on the various
techniques and essentially like you know
do some tree climbing and figure out the
end result but I haven't seen that be
replicated which is odd uh and your deep
seek point is a good one so do you think
we can we have to just innovate right or
do you think we can actually enforce it
through policy um well I think the first
step is to not squander our open source
industry which I think you know at this
point I we're through that but
definitely there was like there's a lot
of conversation at one point of whether
or not the US is going to more actively
regulate open source
models um now that we're through that I
think that there's you know we do have
United States has interesting levers at
our disposal most notably it's the
export control so I think for a lot of
countries we can tell that we can
negotiate and say hey do you want
clusters of Nvidia gpus well if you want
those you probably have to you know you
have to build on top of our stack and
that stack can include the gpus it can
include the open source models it
include sort of um a broad package um I
don't know if that's going to be a
priority for the new Administration I
don't know this is a priority from a
foreign policy standpoint but I think we
have levers to their disposal just in
the same way that on the flip side China
has their levers you know they can offer
large infrastructure build outs they can
offer debt um they can offer you know a
lot of free technology um and that's not
stuff that we can match so it's a you
know this kind of like give and take of
you know a few decades ago China was
like or the US was indisputably the sort
of like provider of infrastructure and
Technology of the world um hopefully
that continues being the case in the
next next Z yeah I mean I think to your
point about the open source models I
think we're going to look back on the
decision by by Zak to actually have like
a frontier scale open source model as
being pretty critical in that kind of
like Evolution very American decision
for sure I know absolutely very
patriotic absolutely
um coming back to one of your maybe your
other thoughts I mean obviously we have
seen a lot of um
kind like excitement about agentic AI
agents kind of means everything and also
means nothing right now
um what what do you make of it like what
do you how do you think in 2025 that
kind of plays out both from a consumer
perspective but then maybe also I think
it's a little bit clearer what it means
maybe for companies but like for
consumers I I would still argue that I I
mean I haven't used an agent to kind of
do anything interesting for me yet uh
well I haven't used one in the company
and Thea but I'm curious what what do
you make of that yeah I think there's I
think where we are with agents so where
we are with models overall is that
they're um they're quite good in within
one turn you know with one promp
response they perform pretty well and
then the performance just goes down a
cliff as you increase the number of
turns um and this is kind of like I mean
nobody will really go out and say it but
this is this is the reality of where we
are so where they work really well is
kind of like the the Google use case
where you you ask a query and kind of
look at the answer um where they work
really poorly is if you actually need to
like work with the model and do
something more complicated you know they
just they just um kind of fall off a
cliff and so um I think that I think
there's kind of two things I think the
first is um the the industry is gonna
like the the model companies are going
to have to work very hard to improve the
reliability um with greater numbers of
turns and ultimately get these models to
have some greater level of internal
coherence and and ultimately sort of you
know be more like entities right now
models don't even know what they don't
know and so they kind of [ __ ] and
you know in general you're sort of like
you know in interacting with the model
on multiple terms you're sort of like
it's like this [ __ ] machine that you
know is statistically more likely to be
correct than incorrect but it's sort of
it's not like a it's not like an entity
with any theory of mind that you're
interacting with um so I think that'll
that'll have to change but I actually
think that like for a lot of for for
this like Watershed agents moment um the
biggest blocker is just um the product
design yeah and I think the like you
know there is the models are good enough
already for there to be some agent
product or agent kind of um product
experience that actually will will be
pretty mind-blowing and pretty great for
a lot of people um I think for the
people in this room it's probably not
obvious because you know maybe we play
with models all the time and so we know
that they're actually really good at a
lot of things but most people don't even
know that the models are that good and
so cursor is like a good example of this
like I think most Engineers didn't
actually know that the models were super
good and you put it into cursor and all
of a sudden it's like a part of their
workflow it's much easier to use so I
think that kind of moment will happen
for consumers um and I think it's it
really is just breaking the models out
of the chat Paradigm into something
that's a little bit more um baked into
baked into the fundamental workflows I
think this is one of the big this is
like the biggest startup opportunity in
2025 if I guess is like actually
iterating to find the right agent
modality um I agree um maybe let's move
on to talking about obviously you know
everybody is talking about one of the
biggest limitations to building the next
kind of generation of Frontier models is
simply accessibility of like data um how
real do you think the data wall is
um what do your take what's your take on
kind of essentially synthetic data for
training models um and obviously I think
in this overall conversation scale is a
huge kind of like you know uh huge part
in the conversation so curious to get
your thoughts
there yeah I think like I think the the
um the frenzy of the last you know 12 to
18 months of conversation was just like
who has more computed who has more chips
you know the more chips you have you
know you're going to win and so it was
just this like very unnuanced
conversation around who has the biggest
cluster and whoever has the biggest
cluster is going to win and then I think
what's like coming to light is you know
even with a much bigger cluster you we
hitting some data limits like you know
we've we're hitting the limits of all
publicly available data and um you know
we need a tandem approach of you know
production you know what are the
specialized data sets in addition to the
the computational power that's going to
yield much greater performance and so I
think I mean the this the uh the the
data wall and the sort of like the wall
on progress that we've hit right now is
like certainly real know I think we've
hit some kind of pre-training limits um
and a lot of the progress now is coming
from post training that post trainining
is much more bottleneck by specialized
data sets and and uh and sort of high
quality data sets that don't look like
the ones that we have on the internet so
data is really critical I think there
was a sort of like there was a belief um
there were the research one of the
research beliefs was that oh the models
will just generate or long large scale
reasoning traces or other kind of data
that we'll just train pre-train the
models on that hasn't really panned out
I think a lot of the experiments on
synthetic data um it just turns out you
you like you lose so much of the real
richness in the data distribution if you
use synthetic data so I think the
reality of what's going to happen going
forward is like you know we're going to
need to rely on new forms of human
generated data to get to where we want
to go with the models um but if we scale
data in addition to scaling compute we
can keep making progress we may not it
may not be necessary to have the sort of
like you know trillion dollar5 trillion
doll 10 trillion dollar clusters that we
were talking about a year ago but uh but
we still probably need the hundred
billion doll clusters so I think it's
kind of I think there's some kind of
normalization to the conversation that's
happening yeah it's kind of like it was
actually all about who had the biggest
cluster and then will capitalism work
and then we actually have a lot more
chips which is great but I do think that
the the new bottleneck is on the data
side so I mean I'm curious like what how
do you think what scales role in that
like obviously you guys play a big role
uh in the post training part of the
world but do you think
that are there opportunities for scale
to even ramp up it's kind of its
presence on on that front yeah I mean
we're having to ramp up data production
across the board so I think that like
I think that frankly what's going to
have to happen is like if you if we if
you zoomed all the way out on the like
path to AGI so to speak I think we're
going to need you know the computer is
going have to scale exponentially and
then you'll have this like smaller curve
but this equivalent curve of like data
production needing to scale up
exponentially and so I think we just
need to sort of like keep scaling up on
that curve and it needs to scale with
everything else so you can't just scale
the data ahead of the computer or you
know you can't get one can't get too far
of the other but um yeah I think our
role is really our key role to play is
in producing all the data to actually
enables to get to that um get to you
know get to data scaling in addition to
compute
scaling um maybe shifting a little bit
to like you know a lot of folks out
there in the audience are founders of AI
companies um what do you think is
different about starting a company in
the AI Space versus you know uh all the
companies that have been created kind of
in in the prior generation like what
what are some of the notable differences
in in your
mind so I think I think there's a few so
um one big thing in any new
technologically new space um there's
just a lot of uncertainty and the flip
side of that is a lot of [ __ ] so um
so AI is no different as an industry um
and I think a long time ago probably
software of service was the same where
there was you know a lot of a lot of
[ __ ] but but AI is certainly to a
point right now where like I don't know
80 to 90% of what is out there so to
speak is [ __ ] and uh and a lot of
like what people will say or what
investors believe or what like other
people if you go to a party will tell
you like nobody knows what the [ __ ] is
actually going on truly TR nobody knows
what is actually going on and so um but
there's a lot of people who be confident
and wrong and so I think one of the
things that's like hard about
I'll get I'll tell this funny anecdote
um so now we're getting into yeah okay
so uh so when um when scale when we were
raising our series a so was like 208 27
no 2018 early 2018 um one of our first
slides in our uh in Our Deck said
something like um data is the lifeblood
of AI systems or something like that and
then um and then uh for we were pitching
Sequoia it was a whole partner pitch I
get to this slide and one of the Sequoia
Partners I'm not going to say exactly
who um very loudly and confidently says
that's not true anding just told me that
you know we no longer need more data for
AI and so uh actually we're going to be
fine without more data this is like two
minutes into my presentation um and I'm
just like uh I don't know what and I
don't know I was I was
20 20 at the time so I was a little
shell shocked and I was like uh I don't
know what Andrew is talking about I'm
sure I could talk to him about it but
you obviously need way more data for AI
and then you base was like no I don't
think so and then um uh and then he
didn't pay attention he was pretty
senior so he didn't pay attention to the
rest of the presentation soone the
junior people paid any attention so I
just went through the motions and then
it would like you know obviously they
said no and that's an example of the
kind of thing like there's there's
people who are like very very confident
about some things which will just prove
to be wrong um and that's true in any
early industry it's certainly true right
now
because you know so many people in the
tech ecosystem are paid to have thesis
to have a thesis or to have thesis so
it's like if you're like an investor
you're paid to have a thesis in a point
of view you can tell your LPS about your
thesis or if you're like a if you're a
product leader in a big tech company
you're paid to have a thesis and a point
of view and so so many people have these
like beliefs that are not actually truly
grounded in that much reality and so
you're just like I think if you're
building in this space um there's a
large premium in you having the ability
to figure out what you actually believe
and then executing a against the flow to
to accomplish that and I think that's
probably the that's probably the biggest
thing I think that like where you're
going to get [ __ ] is if you follow the
trends and like you could you could even
raise a lot of money following trends
like there's tons of companies if I look
at the history of AI there's tons of
companies that raised like $50 million
series A's or100 million series A's by
like doing something that was really
like Vogue and in Trend but then it
turns out that that was just a stupid
idea so um I think that's like the
that's like the Hallmark and AI
obviously has gone through many ups and
downs and you know um it'll there will
be many more ups and downs in the future
but um but the biggest challenge I think
for Founders is to develop a sense of
what you actually believe and then also
having a mechanism by which you're
constantly learning from the ecosystem
versus just digging your heels in an A
belief and then you get like washed out
in the tide um that that'd be my the
most important thing yeah you know I'd
say that uh so I mean kind of it helps
to be right
um but i' say I mean there's actually a
very interesting takeway particularly
for the I I think the founders at spbc
see which is that I think that there are
very few uh categories or verticals that
are actually have like any kind of
incumbent or even kind of an an emerging
kind of like winner that's actually
winning right now I think a lot of the
[ __ ] is still actually up for like grabs
uh because I think that and it's not
actually an indicator of like how much
money has been raised um or even
honestly like their usage metrics
because everyone's usage metrics are
kind of low right now um so I think that
you just have to not be psyched out well
you also have to be right which is I
think a good filter uh but I also just
don't think that there's it's I would
not get SED out about essentially like
you know the competition at this stage
because there's still a ton of
opportunity uh and if anything um you
know if you have a bunch of people all
kind of harping about the same in some
Way's approach towards a particular idea
it's pretty interesting to kind of take
a slightly contrarian take on that
particular subdomain um yeah yeah I
think that I think in general you know
most people in San Francisco uh don't
really believe anything and they like
get all their ideas off of Twitter and
parties so um so I think your mandate is
to not be one of those people and to
think independently um and I think
that's critical for for being able start
a company because at various points
whatever you build will be popular or
unpopular popular unpopular um and uh
and your job is to weather that crazy
storm and that's true at the at the at
the highest levels like Nvidia you know
has been at various points very unsexy
and then all of a sudden very sexy um
and they'll go through those waves again
and so um that's kind of the uh I think
that's the Mandate yeah something that
you know um something that Mark always
used to tell us at Facebook is that you
never add
as bad as kind of the world tells you
but you're Never As Good As the World
tells you right and everybody always
takes the like oh you know when I'm
[ __ ] struggling then like I need to
have belief in myself but there's a flip
side to it is when the world is telling
you that what everything you're doing is
right that's also kind of like a sign
that like maybe you're not actually
thinking critically enough maybe you're
not actually being opinionated enough
maybe like you're actually
converging to like you know that midwit
mean you know so um so I I do think that
there's something to be said about that
uh it's easier said than done like the
echo Chambers are real we're all pretty
susceptible to it I'm curious if you
agree with this Alex you I I think that
one of the mythologies in Silicon Valley
has been that in order to compete in AI
you need a lot of money I would probably
like take the opposite point of view on
it I think there's a ton more
opportunity either if you're actually
doing on the foundation model space I
think the T of opportunity in terms of
being creative with like algorithmic
changes maybe even like in your data
sources and certainly like if you're
building up and down the AI stack I
think you can get a lot further with
having like contrarian creative
strategies than simply going out and
raising boatloads of money um I I'm
curious is does that
resonate so um if your business plan is
that you need to raise a lot of money
because you need to spend a lot of money
that is in business terms a bad business
because um because it uh it um yeah
obviously you want to build a profitable
company you want to build something that
makes money so if you have to spend a
lot of money you're just deeper in the
hole um I think that like I think that
often times um Silicon Valley gets
caught up in certain uh sort of uh um
races for these grandiose ambitious
objectives and so you know if you want
to be emperor of the World by
controlling the foundation model that is
God then I think yeah you probably lots
of money but um that's probably not the
goal of most people here most companies
the goal of most companies is to you
know build a profitable business that uh
has the ability to keep compounding for
a long time period And so you know we we
watch this pretty closely in the
self-driving car um debacle where you
know there were um there were hundreds
of billions of dollars raised I think
close to1 billion do raised to build uh
large scale autonomous vehicles I think
like now with the whole Cruise thing I
think actually like basic like exactly
zero of those companies ended up
succeeding um so all the money that went
into the self-driving cars like you have
one winner which is wh Mo uh and it
turns out they have an infinite bank
account so they're not really a company
you can compete with and I think there's
a real analogy to where we are today
which is there's like you know if you
want to get on the treadmill and compete
on trading Foundation models you're
competing with companies with more money
than than you know all but 10 country
like truly like yeah um the the richest
entities that Humanity has ever known
that Microsoft should be in the G8 yeah
exactly yeah um and that's not a good
strategy I don't think you should try to
compete with uh with an infinite balance
sheet and so um I think that like for
sure right now uh
the the the imperative is like what is a
creative way but what is a what is the
what is a way in which you can develop
something that is genuinely
differentiated in the ecosystem and also
something that you can keep investing in
for a long time Horizon like I think for
at least right now in AI like the the
premium is actually just picking a
certain problem to care about for a
really long time um you know openi and
anthropic and Google these are like very
fearsome companies but they also have
like literally a bajillion like 10,000
things to care about and worry about and
optimize for and um it's very hard for
any of them to focus on a particular
area perplexity I think is the best
example of this like it's still none of
the other products are as good as
perplexity in just simple search-based
llm output yep and so um and they're
just they haven't spent that much money
they're just they're just like way more
focused on that problem so Focus always
has a big premium okay um we'll open it
up to the audience uh in a couple of
minutes so for start thinking of your
questions um but before I open it
up do you still write any
code no no um no I used cursor a little
bit the other day just to kind of like
what's your hot see what the Hub up is
about um I think it's a great product uh
I think
it's what I don't know is like it's
pretty hard to fully monopolize a
workflow yeah um in this way
so I think that like if you look at the
history of of of com businesses like
like just owning a workflow is very hard
to hold on to over long periods of time
because like developers like anybody you
know they're fickle and they're going to
try something new and eventually
something new will have like one B of
whle that's cooler so um I think it'll
be interesting to see how they choose to
like sync roots and how they try to lay
roots to try to like solidify their
their position but uh we both a great
thing yeah know I think developers are
super picky and fickle my my take on
installing cursor was also like oh I
don't like these three small things and
ignore kind of the 10 great things you
know
um who is one person that you think
Silicon Valley should pay more attention
to I think in
general uh Silicon Valley is
very
politically int so to speak like or like
politically I would say like un
investigated and so um the uh the broad
Strokes I mean I think there's this
great um email that leaked a long time
ago where it was like an email thread is
the all this demographic information of
the Baby Boomers and like that's
actually the major thread to pay
attention to and then I think that in
many ways that's like if you get the
like broad strr political threads right
then those can be like huge trends for
uh for growth and so obviously the major
kind of the the major political threat
right now is is you know populism and
trumpism and all that kind of stuff and
um it's one of these things where like I
think you know hey I don't think I Tech
compies mostly are apolitical and so
shouldn't be that shouldn't be that
focus on this stuff but um if you were
to think like globally what's happening
politically uh in terms of Greater
isolationism greater nationalism greater
populism etc etc um there's there's good
takeaways for like what are the you know
20-year um Tailwinds that might that
might be embedded in all the things that
we see and so I think the sort of like
greater political literacy in Silicon
Valley is underrated all open it up to
the audience um I'm Ryan I just wanted
to ask you about your position on
synthetic data so you didn't see very
bullish on synthetic data for post
training uh I wanted to hear more about
that position and do you think that is
indicative of where we are right now and
just need to find the right tricks or is
this more of a fundamental thing also
understanding that like you said people
get paid to have DCS you're also paid to
have a thesis and this thesis is
important for scale oh sorry I think
sythetic data works for post training
obviously but it's like I guess like
synthetic data it's kind of it's not a
philosopher stone it's not like it's not
like this like thing that you just like
I'm going to press the button and keep
getting more data out of it it's like
you need to come up with all these
tricks to get like each trick gets you a
little more synthetic data and you need
to
like fundamentally What synthetic data
is is like you're leveraging um the
structure of the data or you're
leveraging all these priors that you can
or these sort of like
structural you're you're leveraging
underlying structures in the data to get
you know squeeze out some amount of
synthetic data to improve your model
like that obviously works as a paradigm
but it's not like a infinite Pursuit
it's it's not something that like work
to infinity and so I guess my overall
thought is like it obviously works and
it's obviously part of a world class
Post Trading effort it's just not the
like it's not the like solution to
overscaling WS Hi how are you my name is
Lorena and um yeah I would like to um
understand you know most entrepreneurs
uh at the beginning they're told you
know you should Target small to
mediumsized companies you shouldn't go
for an Enterprise uh you know you're
likely to fail uh so what what would you
say especially if I understand correctly
from a early from an early stage you
focus on Enterprise why did you choose
Enterprise despite the advice that said
even from why combinator and um yeah
just any advice for for for
entrepreneurs who want to go straight
you know cater to Enterprise and not
small to medium uh businesses so the
issue with most Enterprises is that you
can't even believe what they tell you
because um because there's like then I
mean it's just like this it's like this
most large Enterprises are these cancers
and most of the people you'll talk to um
have nothing to do with the success of
the company but they have some job where
they're sort of like you know
responsible for a thing and and so
you're like it's it's like this whole uh
rats nest that you have to learn to
navigate and figure out exactly how you
leverage it to to work and uh
but if it works then obviously you know
it can be incredibly it can work
incredibly well all the largest um all
the largest companies in the world are
either Enterprise companies or consumer
companies so um the sort of like small
this is like a really common about like
large very large scale businesses but
small medium businesses you know you tap
out at some point and this is not really
a statement for startups um so I think I
think for like I think for a startup if
you want there are some startups that
focus on Enterprises we were one of them
there's there's some others that I think
have been successful but if you want to
do it you have to know that you'll have
to spend let's say 30% of your time
navigating the bureaucracy and [ __ ]
of an organization um whereas if you
work with small medium businesses then
they don't even have time to lie to you
so they're just going to you know
whatever they tell you you can take it
face value which I think is a great
benefit for um for startups
um yeah I mean I think I think the
general advice probably is that like
focus on small and medium businesses I
of you want to like get lift off and
success as a company small medium
businesses is definitely the the obvious
gradient um but I think depending on
whatever the ecosystem is like like if
you're in a startup ecosystem where 99%
of companies are focus on small to
medium businesses then maybe there's
less opportunity there and I think this
was kind of the this is the thing that I
notice um if you think I think if you
look in longer themes with startups the
kind of this is what kind of ends up
happening which is that um so a bunch of
companies start uh half of them are
trying to model themselves against the
the companies that are successful at
that time they all end up being in like
perfect competition with one another so
none of them get traction then some
company those focus on some Fringe idea
ends up having no competition but that
idea ends up working and so then two
years later that's the hot company and
then all the startups try to copy that
try to model themselves over that
company and so on and so forth and so
you never want to be like if you look at
like all the companies around you you
never want to be exactly where all the
other companies are focused you want to
try doing something that's a little bit
Fringe because um it's kind of you avoid
the the perfect competition so to
speak sure hey Alex um just a quick
question on um your thought on people's
opinions and kind of having a specific
opinion I think people's opinions are
often a combination of their life
experiences Force principles thinking
and your own inputs um now it's
difficult to be right if most of your
inputs are [ __ ] so what are your
inputs and how do you filter for your
inputs so um what what I choose to like
um I try really hard to focus on get it
on talking to so the best inputs for me
personally are um is like writing on the
Internet or like talking to specific
experts and I try really hard to talk to
people who like truly do not care about
what other people think right um and
you'll you'll find these people because
they just really seem to beat to the you
know you know go to the beat of Their
Own Drum and you know they like they'll
seem very strange and weird but like try
to go to try to get the advice of people
who like genuinely
are uh yeah are are independent thinkers
and um and also look at the writings of
people who are independent thinkers um I
think that's that's another thing I
think there's a there's a one of the
great benefits of I think the modern
internet ecosystem is there's there's so
much high quality writing on substack
that like you can actually learn so much
about any individual thing from like
experts who post about on substack it's
actually like crazy um and so the those
I think were the the key inputs and then
your customers and I think that like um
you just have to uh I adopt a mindset
where like customers are just always
right and like um some people are
successful in in various ways without
needing this but um you just have to
like like you have to be super super sub
subservient to your
customers cool uh I think that's uh
that's think that's all the time that we
have uh thank you so much Alex for
coming by and sharing get talk today
yeah thanks thank you
[Music]