# Podcast Transcript
# Show: All-In with Chamath, Jason, Sacks & Friedberg
# Episode: 12 Day War, Socialism Wins in NYC, Stocks All-Time High, AI Copyright, Science Corner
# YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dp75wqOrtBs
# Downloaded: 2025-07-19 20:58:14

Did you guys see this uh White House
video? Oh, is there a White House video?
I honestly think that was the funniest
post by a White House ever was the
Daddy's Home video.
I feel like popping bottles to this.
Come on now. Up in the club. Oh, in the
VIP popping bottle with the rainman.
Let's buy two bottles of that all in
tequila. If we get a double.
That is the best. The backstory to that
is that Mark Ruto, who's the secretary
general of NATO, called Trump daddy at
the Yeah, he called him daddy.
Guy got weird. Ragg, you missed it. We
were just up in the club. You want to go
back to the club for a second? I do. I
love the club. You ready? I love the
club. Popping some bottles with the NATO
summit. We're doing it again. Come on,
Freeberg.
Let me see you stand up, Freeberg.
your Sultan of science. What club are we
going to this weekend? Oh, daddy's home.
We are going to bring the club to us. I
think it's called Club NATO. Sash, can
you get the hot pass? You want to come
to Vegas this weekend? Uh, maybe we'll
talk about it all.
JL, come out. Where are you? Pop on a
Southwest flight. Meet us in Vegas.
[Music]
Let your winners ride.
Rainman David
and we open sourced it to the fans and
they've just gone crazy with it. Love
you.
All right everybody, welcome back to the
number one podcast in the world. The
AllIn podcast, your favorite podcast.
We're back. We got the original quartet
here and everybody's really excited
because we had a fun time on Saturday
night. What a party we had at Delilah.
All four besties there. Step and repeat.
Freeberg, you lost a bunch of money
playing bomb pots with me and Rob
Goldberg. You drank a lot. You looked
great. Your impressions of this evening.
Oh, I loved it. It was great. I think
the tequila turned out fantastic. This
tequila has been I mean you guys realize
when we first started talking about this
this was like two and a half almost
three years ago when we first started
talking about this and it is finally
here. It took forever to get through
this uh this kind of design development
process but man I think it turned out
great. I thought it was awesome.
Everybody at the Everybody at the party
was surprised by how good it was cuz
they thought that I don't know, we were
just doing this as a gimmick or
something, but we actually put in the
time to make it great. A lot of time. A
lot of time. So, talk a little bit about
the sourcing cuz I think that that
sourcing was very important. Well, we
went down to Tequila, Mexico. There's
only one part of Mexico that's even
allowed to be called uh tequila. And we
found a distillery that had been aging
some agave in American oak whiskey
barrels for 5 years. And normally
extrajo is aged for 3 years. So it was
pretty rare to find a cache of 5year
aged. And so we basically bought it all.
But there's only enough for 7500
bottles. So that's what we did. But you
know, this is not about creating some
large new tequila label. This is more
about creating something that we
ourselves like and that's what we did.
Sort of a small batch product. I mean,
the money is not going to change
anyone's life, you know, except maybe
yours. Yeah. But I don't know. Uber hit
another record today. So, with Uber past
88, you guys are all I don't need to be
here anymore. Oh my god. But look, we do
things because they're fun. And it was
fun to create this. Here, I've got the
It is fun. It was really fun. Well, look
at this thing. I mean, beautiful box.
slides open. It's back lit in the box.
So cool. So that out of the box
experience is just amazing. Yeah, it's a
great unboxing. Steve Jobs would be
proud. Tell us about the bottle design.
That was a lot of work, Sachs. I think
this probably took an extra 6 months to
get this right if I'm if I'm recalling
correctly on the schedule. This is super
complicated to execute. Well, the bottle
is designed after a stack of poker
chips. And so you can see the chips are
stacked and they're a jar. So, it's like
highly it's a lot of texture here. It's
made with glass and then there's these
black chip accents that are actually
painted onto the bottle perfectly. So,
this took a lot to get right. We went
through a lot of prototypes to get this
and it just looks amazing.
All right, there you have it, folks. The
All-In Tequila as promised. It's finally
available on our website. So, if you go
to tequila.allin.com,
you can now buy it. There's only 7,500
bottles. I think we're only going to
sell 6,000 because we're going to keep
the rest for our own personal stuff. We
sold a good chunk already. Like I think
we're So they're going really fast. We
just opened up the website. Previously,
they were only available to people who
had attended the All-in Summit. They
could pre-order it and reserve, but now
the website is open. Oh, wow. Beautiful.
There it is. Okay, there you go. Order
your bottle, limit to two, and uh go
ahead. This is, you know, this is not a
a cheap product, but you know, if you
look at the the pure competitor for this
product is the Clausul Ultra, which I
think sells at $1,700 a bottle, although
sometimes I've seen it sell for as much
as 3,000 a bottle. So, we're priced
competitively with that. There you go.
And each of the those boxes, and when
you open it up, the lights up and you
can recharge it. So, it's a keepsake,
right? There's a charging port in the
box so that it never runs out of a
battery to power the So genius. So
genius. I love that little touch. All
right, folks. There's tons in the new
look at this room service coming. I
mean, before we get to World War II,
let's get some room service at the Peep
that out. Do you want a side of caviar
with your uh besties all in tequila?
Listen, being an elitist, guys, is very
hard. That's what I was tweeting how
stressful it is. Somebody was saying
that we weren't living up to our job as
being the elite. Oh. And I was like,
man, this is it's really stressful being
an elite. You know, we need we need a
drink. Absolutely. I'll take a double.
You have no idea. So, did you get did
you go with the on your eggs Bernese
there? Did you go with the truffles or
the caviar? What did you do? Well, I I
honestly I um I went quite healthy. I
have some avocado. Okay. Very nice. I
have mango. Mhm. And I have some eggs.
Where are my eggs? Up to $72. Okay,
David, do you want to see my pillows
with my initials on them? Yeah. Oh,
lord. Here we go. This is the best thing
that the does. Shout out to our friends
at Politico.
How out of touch we are. Look, Sax, they
always put my initials. Oh, they do that
for you? They do that for me. Isn't that
incredible? Okay, here we go. All right,
there's lots to discuss in the news.
We'll shift from conspicuous consumption
and talk about the 12-day war between
Israel and Iran. It's two weeks later,
obviously a quick recap here and then
we'll get the besties take on where
we're at today, June 26 when we tape
this. Friday, June 13th, Israel launched
a surprise attack, took out a bunch of
uh Iranian military officials, some
folks who work on the nuclear program
and they traded missiles for about a
week before
everybody debating if this was going to
be World War II. And on Saturday, June
21st, quite shockingly, the US jumped in
and carried out Operation Midnight
Hammer. I've had a couple weekends in
Vegas that have been called Midnight
Hammer. Oh, yes. Midnight Hammer, also
known as Wow. There we go, folks. Um,
over a dozen bunker buster bombs on two,
maybe three of Iran's key nuclear
facilities, Fordo and Natans. These
bombs weigh 15 tons each. They'll go
deep underground. Israel doesn't have
them. And that's the reason we're given
of why we were pulled into this is
because we're the only people in the
world who could have taken these out. On
Thursday morning, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, Dan Kaine, showed a
video. If you haven't seen it, folks,
this came out this morning. Here's the
video. It's a video of a of of what they
call a massive ordinance penetrator.
Yeah. It basically goes through the
ground. I think in this case, it's going
through a ventilation shaft and it
doesn't immediately go off. It basically
burrows to its maximum depth and then
goes off. This looks like a test to me.
This is just demonstrating it. This is a
demonstrating how it works. Yeah.
And so, uh, here's the before and after
photos you've probably seen. Kind of
hard to understand what's going on here,
except for the discolorization.
Obviously, we're going for things
underground.
And then, shockingly, Iran did a um a I
don't know what you'd call this, a
ceremonial response sacks, where they
send some missiles to one of our bases
in Qar. They gave us a ton of notice.
None of them landed. And then uh both
countries have been bombing each other a
little bit after Trump said he
negotiated a ceasefire which made our
president a little bit upset. Here's the
clip of the president not dropping a
MOAB but dropping an F-bomb. Israel. As
soon as we made the deal, they came out
and they dropped a load of bombs the
likes of which I've never seen before.
The biggest load that we've seen. I'm
not happy with Israel. You know, when
when I say, "Okay, now you have 12
hours. You don't go out in the first
hour and just drop everything you have
on them. So, I'm not happy with them.
I'm not happy with Iran either. We
basically have two countries that have
been fighting so long and so hard that
they don't know what the they're doing.
Do you understand that? You had
Trump is not happy he did the lean in.
Did you notice the lean in there, Saxs,
when he dropped the fbomb? Well, in in
fairness, President Trump's not the
first president to drop an F-bomb in
frustration with Netanyahu.
It was reported back in the '9s that
Bill Clinton, when he had to deal with
Netanyahu as being very obsinate and was
basically rejecting all of Clinton's
entreaties and plans, Clinton is
reported to have said, "Who's the
[ __ ] superpower here?" you know, in
frustration. So this is not the first
time that an American president has
gotten frustrated with Netanyahu. But I
think people reacted quite well to that
on the whole because it showed that
President Trump was willing to well
first first of all he negotiated this
ceasefire which was amazing. Then what
happens is that you know there was this
deadline and it was like in a in a fight
where they ring the bell and the
fighters keep slugging with each other.
Yeah. It's like they both want to get a
few extra hits in. Mhm. And uh that's
licks that's yeah that they got some
last licks in but President Trump
negotiated the ceasefire which was
extraordinary and then he's willing to
reprimand Israel for basically violating
the ceasefire too which you have to do
if you want to enforce it. So I think
that's basically what happened there.
Now you sax I'm sure the audience wants
to challenge you on this. You were hey
Trump is a never get involved in forever
wars. Obviously it looks like this might
not be a forever war which would be
fantastic if that turns out to be the
case. and um you were saying, "Hey, the
reason to vote for Trump is he won't get
us into another war and here we go." Uh
and obviously Tucker, Tulsi, there's a
number of people who are did not want to
do this and you were one of them. So,
how do you reconcile all of this as
somebody who did not want to see us do
this? President Trump accomplished that.
We're not in a forever war. We're not in
a war with Iran. You look at Mark Levin
today, he's apoplelectic because he and
people like him were advocating for a
regime change war and they felt like
this was the perfect opportunity to drag
the United States into such a war and
President Trump resisted that and
instead negotiated a ceasefire. So it
seems to me that he lived up to exactly
his promises on this. Look, I think
President Trump had to thread a very
difficult needle here. If you look at
polling, the vast majorities of the
American population believe in two
things. Number one, they don't want Iran
getting a nuclear weapon by like 80
something%. They also by 80 something%
don't want to get dragged into a new
forever war in the Middle East, right?
They don't want to be in a long
protracted war with Iran. President
Trump managed to accomplish both those
objectives. He took out the Iranian
nuclear sites in these highly precise
targeted strikes, but he did not get
dragged into a new Middle Eastern war.
In fact, he negotiated a ceasefire and
at least an end to the war right now
between Israel and Iran. I think there's
very few leaders who could have threaded
this needle. Imagine if Kla Harris were
president. Just do the counterfactual.
Would she have had the situational
awareness to realize that when the
Iranians struck at our base in Qatar
that it was performative, that it was
telegraphed and that it was meant to
basically be for domestic consumption
and end the war? She might have
escalated it. Certainly, you know, a lot
of the neocons who were on social media
were saying, "This is our chance,
right?" When when the Iranians engaged
in that performative hit on on Qatar,
they were saying, "We got to escalate.
We got to basically bomb all of Iran now
and get into a big war." And Trump, he
had the overall awareness of the
situation to avoid that. And this goes
back to his experience with Solommani
back in the first Trump administration.
The Iranians did the same thing where
they fired some missiles at American
bases, but they were telegraphed. We
were told in advance they were coming.
They were easy to avoid. No Americans
got harmed. And then Trump ended the
conflict there. And I think that a lot
of presidents might have gotten sucked
in to a new Middle Eastern war. Chimath,
let me pull you in here. Uh, obviously
little cognitive dissonance. Folks
didn't want to go to war, but we don't
want WMDs in the hands of Iran. How do
you reconcile all of this? Does the
outcome make it okay uh in your mind or
would you rather have seen we not get
involved in this? Can I uplevel this
slightly? I think that this has been
probably the most important
week and I would almost say most
important few months in US politics in
30 or 40 years. And the reason is that
it starts to converge
a bunch of things together that I think
are really worth putting on the table.
So from my perspective, I think what
President Trump has done is almost
single-handedly bring back the United
States as the global superpower. And I
would put that in all caps. So what does
it mean to be a superpower? I've said
this several times, but just to be
slightly redundant. In order to be a
superpower, I think you need to have
three things, but they work in a
hierarchy. The first is that you need to
have technical supremacy. And then from
that technological supremacy, you need
to establish and project economic
supremacy and military supremacy. So if
you look at the first one, you saw a
tactical demonstration of technological
supremacy with the B2 bombers. But
taking a more general step back, if you
look at the largest companies in the
world, who are the ones that are
actually driving the world forward,
these are all American companies. I
think these last few months you've seen
America firing on all cylinders
technologically
economically. At the same time, you now
have the stock market back at all-time
highs. You have interest rates
incredibly starting to compress even in
the absence of the Federal Reserve
willing to act on data. So, you're
projecting economic supremacy. And then
these last few weeks, frankly, have been
a pretty clear-cut case of military
supremacy. And so I think what's pretty
simple now is like the US is essentially
telling the world our words carry weight
again. We're going to shape the global
order. Countries will now have to
calibrate their actions around what the
US is willing to tolerate and what it
isn't willing to tolerate. And in the
case of Iran, the president made those
lines, I think, really crystal clear. He
warned them a 100 times where the line
was. And he was clear, you cannot build
nuclear weapons. And when the line was
crossed, and look, I think the the CNN's
of the world want to debate that the
line wasn't crossed. All I can tell you
is I don't know because I don't have
access to the intel. I believe what he
and Tulsi Gabbard and JD Vance and Marco
Rubio and Pete Hexith are saying is that
they crossed the line and then he showed
that he will use decisive military force
when that happens. But then here's
what's crazy, and this is where I think
you become a real superpower. It's what
happens after once you cross the line,
you notice that he doesn't try to
humiliate or dominate Iran. He tells
Iran that he wants them to stabilize
themselves. He told them that he wants
to see them trading oil with China. He
wants to see them improving the lives of
their people because he realizes that a
stable Iran is a stable Middle East. So,
I think it's really amazing. And then
the the fact that he was able to bring
Israel and Iran, who's been on the verge
of some kind of conflict for decades,
and broker a ceasefire, it's a really
important moment, I think, in American
history. I really do think that if you
look at my little framework, it is the
closest thing for us to being able to
say that we are truly a clearcut
singular hegeimon global superpower
again. And that's really exciting.
Well, he did he definitely did provide
that golden bridge for Iran to to cross
over to and maybe move into another
phase. But Freeberg, maybe you could
steal me the other side of this just for
the discussion here. This could have
gone another direction. We could be
sitting here and there could be
terrorist attacks or sleeper cells, you
know, in the United States. It could
turn out when we do the postmortem here
that they weren't close to having a
nuclear bomb and we did this and we got
goated into it. So maybe obviously
things have gone well to date, but
things might not have. So maybe you
could steal man the other side of this.
What's the argument for not having done
this? And uh what if things had gone
another way? How bad could this be?
Um I don't know if this is over and so
well that's my point. Yeah. I mean,
we're kind of in the middle of a
choose your own adventure book here, and
I've got to imagine
that the Israelis and Netanyahu, who's
been pretty vocal about this regime
that's been shouting for decades now,
death to Israel, death to the USA,
needs to change, is going to suddenly
say, hey, let's take a beat and walk
away from this, and we'll all kind of
have peace in the Middle At least I
think we've got to expect that there is
another page to turn that's coming. And
I don't know if you guys heard I don't
know if it's genuine or if it's
authentic or not. Did you hear that
audio of one of the kind of Mossad or
IDF people calling an IRGC commander and
telling him that he has 24 hours to
leave Iran with his wife and child? Did
you guys hear that? Yeah. I have not. I
saw it. Yeah. I mean, I heard it. It's
pretty incredible. And
I've got to imagine that there's going
to continue to be effort to destabilize
whatever regime remains in Iran by
Israel, Mossad, and this isn't going to
be kind of a a quiet peaceful
transition. There's going to continue to
be more conflict. Whether these guys are
going to be trading missiles back and
forth tomorrow, I think, you know, we
don't really know. But this isn't over.
And I do think that the next set of
actions is going to be critical. But
what I was pretty surprised by, I did
not like everyone was saying, "Hey,
we're on the brink of World War II." I
mean, there was some serious
statesmanship that must have gone on to
keep China. And I have no idea. I've had
no insight or conversations with anyone
to give me any sort of proprietary
access to knowledge about what's going
on here. But I've got to imagine there
were calls to China and Russia that kept
them in the loop and kept them in play
on how this all played out. because
China and Russia, the whole fear was
this was going to create this magnet in
the Middle East that everything was
going to rush in and we're going to
catalyze World War II and it didn't
happen. So, I do think that, you know,
first of all,
nothing that folks predicted actually
happened and no one predicted what did
happen. So, I I'm not going to sit here
and try and I'm not going to sit here
and try and predict what happened next.
And I will say if I'm thinking about
like, you know, game theory optimal
poker play, I got to give credit to this
president because it was completely
unpredictable what was coming next. And
I don't think that there was a really
clear path on what he was going to do.
Just like was what has happened
repeatedly. Everyone always slams a
table and says he's starting World War
II. He's driving economic collapse.
Everything's about to end. And then it
turns out he kind of ducks and weaves
and finds his way through. And
everyone's like, "Holy [ __ ] I didn't
expect that to happen." And that was
it's very unpredictable what's going to
happen next. So I am not going to sit
here and try and estimate what's going
to happen next. I can tell you I don't
think the Israelis are going to sit by
quietly and allow this Iranian regime to
continue to go out and build up a
military that's constantly shouting
death to Israel, death to the USA. And I
think that they've taken their first
shot and I don't think it's their last.
So we'll see how this all plays out. I
really don't know. Well, I'm sure I'm
sure that's right. Let me just tee up
one person who did get it right. Here's
John Mirshimer at the All-In Summit just
nine months ago. Let me play this clip
here and get your reaction. Saxs, to
counter the Iranian escalation scenario,
the fact is Iran does not want a war
with the United States and the United
States does not want a war with Iran.
And it's the Israelis, especially
Benjamin Netanyahu, who has been trying
to sort of suck us into a war because he
wants us, the United States, to really
whack Iran, weaken it militarily, and
especially to go after its nuclear
capabilities because, as you well know,
they are close to the point where they
can develop nuclear weapons. So, the
Israelis are the ones who want us to get
involved in a big war with Iran. That's
the escalation flash point. And the
$64,000 question is whether you think
the United States and Iran kind of
colluding can work together to prevent
the Israelis from getting a that that
question will be answered based on the
next who who who leads the next
administration. Well, if you believe
that it matters who leads the next
administration, that's true. And there's
Saxs, there's you laughing for this
incredible insight, which is as you were
saying last year and and Mir Shimemer's
been saying this was manifest destiny.
This was going to happen no matter who
was president and here we are. So your
thoughts on Mir Shimer sort of I mean
wow he just nailed it there. And that
was to your question Freedberg by the
way. So well done uh to Freedberg. We
didn't put your question at the
beginning because he he went on for five
or 10 minutes there. But go ahead, your
reaction to Mir Shimemer's incredible
prediction. That's Professor Mir Shammer
being prophetic as as usual. But let me
go back to a point that Freeberg was
making to Freeberg's point here. This is
not over. Iran and Israel are mortal
enemies and we have a ceasefire here. We
have a pause in the action, but it's
going to flare up again at some point.
The question is what US policy is going
to be. And I think that what President
Trump did over the past two weeks is
make it clear that number one, the
United States does not want to see Iran
get a nuclear bomb and that we are
willing to take military action to
prevent that, but that that action would
be narrowly targeted as narrowly
targeted as possible to achieve that
objective. Number two, that the United
States does not have an interest in
going to war to basically achieve a
regime change. If the people of Iran
want to make Iran great again by, you
know, rising up and toppling the
government, then that's up to them.
Certainly, I think we would welcome
that. But the Trump administration
rejected all of the calls over the past
week or so for the United States to
plunge into a regime change war in Iran.
And that's why the neocons right now are
not happy at all. So that's point number
two. Look, I think Trump found the right
balance here, which is we are going to
be narrowly focused on preventing a
threat to the United States, which is
Iran having a nuclear bomb. But we're
not going to go plunging into another
forever war, another regime change
operation. We've had plenty of
experience with that in the Middle East.
None of it worked. Every time we went
for regime change, it backfired.
Backfired in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya,
and on and on. So, there's no reason to
believe regime change would work. And by
the way, there's no way to get regime
change in a country unless you send in
American GIS to basically keep that
government propped up in in power
because it's almost certainly going to
be perceived as a puppet of the United
States. I mean, if you put, you know,
Raza Palavi or something, the Shaw's son
in power in Iran, he's going to face an
insurgency right away, and there's no
way that his government's going to stay
in power without the American military
protecting him and keeping him in power
at the end of a rifle barrel. So this
whole idea that you can achieve regime
change without its evil twin, which is
nation building, is a total fantasy. You
can't do it. You would need an American
occupation going on for decades. And I
think that the Trump administration
wisely rejected all of this giddy talk.
Remember, in the first couple of days of
that Israeli surprise attack where it
was Israel who hit Iran and there was
all this talk about decapitation, that
the Iranian regime was about to
collapse. It just needed a little bit of
a push. Lindsey Graham. Lindsey Gra.
That's what Lindsey Graham said. That
was all heady talk that turned out not
to be true. There's no question that the
Iranian regime took some damage, but
they did not collapse. And in fact, if
you look at history, one of the things
Mir Shmer's pointed out is that you
don't get regime change just through air
power alone. It takes boots on the
ground. And most Americans are not
willing to put boots on the ground in
Iran to change the regime there. We
believe that is sufficient just to keep
Iran from having a nuclear weapon. And
that's what American policy should focus
on. Yeah, I really fell for this. What
do you think? Well, I really fell for
this check raise from Trump who was
like, "Yeah, no, we're not doing this.
We're not doing this." And all of a
sudden, he does it, right? Nobody
expected him to do it. Everybody thought
he was going to not intervene. And um I
as a Gen Xer like you, Saxs and and I
guess Freeberg and Shimath as well. When
I saw them building the case here, the
Lindsey Grahams, you know, the Hawks,
etc. reports of WMDs that were imminent.
Who knows if that's true. These people
support terrorists. They're trying to
assassinate the president became part of
this. Uh remember that for last time
with Bush Senior spreading democracy in
the Middle East, the regime changed
stuff. That made me all very nervous.
And I think the most important next step
here is that this administration explain
in detail to the American people so we
don't have another dem WMD situation.
Just honestly the truth like did we hit
them? Did we hit some of them? Was there
imminent? Was it sort of imminent? We
just need to have full disclosure here.
I don't like the attacking the press for
a leak inside of the administration.
It's the administration's, you know,
responsibility to not have leaks. And
it's the press and the opposing party,
whoever opposes this action to really
vet this. And we need that part of the
democratic process. I hope we don't shut
that down and we just blindly follow,
you know, uh, the leader because it went
well. Because this isn't over, number
one. Number two, it did go well. Huge
credit to Trump for that. If it does go
well and he ends the war in Russia's
invasion of Ukraine, like, give him the
peace prize. I'm all for it. Fantastic.
But let's get the disclosures here and
let's not blame the press for getting a
leak. Let's actually look at this and
explain to the American people what we
accomplished, what didn't get
accomplished, and what the realistic
next step is. And I I give him a lot of
credit for telling Israel where the line
is and giving the golden bridge to Iran.
They will have a revolution on their own
timeline, but we should not be part of
that. Right. That's the lesson we
learned to your point, Saxs. We can't be
the revolution in Iran. They have to
come from the bottom up. Absolutely. Let
me Let me also disagree with one other
thing you said, which is you you said
you were starting to get nervous about
the the the stampede towards war. I
think you were correctly perceiving what
was happening in the media. I mean, and
this includes Fox News, especially Fox
News. There was all this talk about how
easy it would be. It' be a cakewalk,
that the government was on its last
legs, that it was weak, that it was
basically almost toppled. We just need
to push it over. You're right about the
WMD talk, the talk about the
assassination. This is all like a
literally like a carbon copy of the
arguments that were made back in 2003.
It's the playbook to get us into the
Iraq war. But look, I think two things
are different now. Number one is
President Trump is not George W. Bush. I
mean, that was made abundantly clear.
Number two is we now have alternative
media that even though the mainstream
media and Fox News was basically acting
like this was 2003. You had alternative
media and you had people like Tucker
Carlson speaking out and Steve Bannon, I
have to give him credit on this and
others who are who are pointing this out
and making the case that this would not
go well. And I do think that it's been
very helpful to have those chorus of
voices as a rebuttal. Yes. You know, you
correctly felt that we were being pushed
into war, but I think this was different
now because 20 years later, people
remember what happened, at least enough
do, that they're able to make the
counter case. And I think that
fortunately, we have a decision maker
and chief who also remembers and listens
to those arguments. All right, I think
we've made some good progress here.
Let's move on in the docket. We've got a
lot of other uh topics to talk about.
Obviously oil prices, Chimap, you had
talked about those in relation to this
action. You said, "Hey, if this goes
poorly, we could be looking at a $100 a
barrel oil."
Quite um interestingly, while it did
spike a little bit up to $74, almost hit
your $100 chimoth, racing up from the
$60 mark, you know, we come back down
now. And I think people our energy
independence here in the United States
makes us not immune to this, but we're
somewhat protected. And I think that's
the great thing about energy
independence.
But here we are. The markets have
digested this, priced it in, processed
it in a way that I think maybe none of
us thought it would. So maybe you could
unpack your thinking now on the market's
reaction to the war. The fear that I had
was that if there was um protracted
conflict, what you effectively would see
is a bunch of supply go offline. And if
that supply went offline and as long as
the demand stayed even roughly the same,
you would see prices go up. My thought
was that the price of oil could double.
I think Goldman had it slightly under a
doubling. So that was definitely the the
fear
what folks had going into that weekend.
But coming out of it, this is where I
think you have to be very respectful of
the fact that the market is really the
sum of many, many, many millions of
informed opinions. And I think what they
saw was that Iran was not really in a
position to do anything but capitulate
and give up.
And I think that what they also saw,
whether you agree with the Israeli
policy or not, was that they had
systematically
gone from where they are and marched
eastward. Essentially, they effectively
decapitated Hamas. They effectively
decapitated Hezbollah. They effectively
decapitated the Houthis.
I think finally putting a nail in the
coffin of this Iran nuclear ambition
program was not just important for them
but it's critical for Saudi and the UAE.
You know MBS had an incredibly powerful
quote which was if Iran gets a nuclear
weapon we will have no choice but to get
our own. Right? So by taking all of that
risk off the table, what you're now
talking about is an enormous supply that
could essentially service world
productivity needs unhindered because
it's not just Iranian supply. You're
talking about Emirati supply and you're
talking about Qatari supply and you're
talking about Saudi supply. So, I think
what the market realized was, okay, now
the Middle East is the closest it's ever
been
to fully monetizing the oil that they
have and to invest
aggressively into their own people. The
second thing is that Steve Witco
spoke about the fact that you should
expect the Abraham Accords to expand. So
if you think about that one-two punch,
not necessarily from a geopolitical
lens, but from an economic lens, the
first punch is neutering the Iranians
ability to be chaos monkeys in the
region. But the second punch is the one
that then now creates normalization
across the region with Israel.
It double and triples down the ability
to monetize oil and start to invest
those returns in future projects that
have a much better ROI. All of that
leads to cheaper energy and Iran becomes
the odd person out here in this new, you
know, federation of people in the Middle
East who want peace and normal
relations. I think it's a phenomenal
question, Jason, but I think that's what
the market sniffed out and I think
that's what the market is now saying
like that this is a chapter that we can
close and move on. This could be a big
paradigm shift and framework, the major
part of this paradigm shift that we're
seeing here comes from an investment in
energy in the United States since the
Iraq war, since the Afghanistan war. We
now are energy independent. We're a net
exporter. We've invested in solar. We've
invested in wind. We are doing more
drilling, nat gas. And this week, uh I
think we saw some new starts for nuclear
as well. So this time around when we
look at our Middle East policy, it is
not informed by our need for that oil.
Is that correct Fber? In your mind?
Well, I think you have to look at it on
a global basis. Iran exports $60 billion
a year and about 55 billion of that goes
to China and that number is up from I
believe sub 30% just a few years ago or
sub 20%. So the relationship between
Iran and China and the importance of
that relationship to China's economy and
productivity I think cannot be
understated. So independent of the
United States on a global stage, the
situation with the supply of energy and
the partnership on energy with what is
effectively the US's largest rival now
is critical to take into account when
doing the calculus on how to resolve
forward here. Which is also why and I
don't think that we have perfect
information. I don't think the public
has been given perfect information about
the statesmanship that's gone on between
the United States and China or the
conversations that gone on at a high
level between the US and China or at a
high level between the US and Russia
regarding what is the right way to
transition the region. When I look at
the region and when you'd hear about
other leaders in that region speaking
publicly, the King of Jordan, MBS from
Saudi, the Omanis from Bahrain, all of
the other leaders in that region, even
the Qataris who seem to kind of try to
straddle both sides here, they all seem
to have a very strong imperative and
incentive to modernize the Middle East,
to bring those economies into the global
stage, to bring them into kind of a
modern economy. Well, Jason, I know
you've talked about this and you've
visited and the rest of us obviously
have relationships there, but there's a
strong demand and a strong interest in
this region and modernizing. And that
modernization is going to benefit the
world because they will ultimately be
net exporters. They will ultimately net
net producers of things that everyone
else will buy and participate in. And
they will also be very big consumers.
They are already very big buyers of
American technology and American
businesses and also big financiers of
global capitalism. So in that context, I
don't think it's just about, hey, we got
to go get the oil, or hey, we got to go
get the energy. It's about how do you
balance China's need for energy, how do
you balance the Russian incentives, and
how do you help the rest of that region
modernize? And I think that's where
there's a very complex dance underway
that we have very little insight into
the details of those conversations. And
I'm not going to just sit here and be
like very flippant about, oh, we should
do this or we should do that because
there's a lot at play. And I think that
that is in my opinion the net calculus,
the bigger picture calculus that's
underway in trying to transition the
region. Sax, let me ask you a question
here. Leveling it up pretty well known.
The Israelis have nuclear weapons and
many of them and they have for some time
even though they're not part of any of
the treaties and they will claim they
don't or or be a little koi about it.
What is the argument for nobody else in
the region being allowed to have one if
the Israelis have many? And would you be
okay with Saudi having nuclear bombs?
And what is the argument we would make
to them as the West, Americans, people
who have nuclear
weapons, Russia, China have them? Why
can't Saudi have them? What's your best
argument to them of not acquiring them?
If is the Israelis have dozens to
hundreds? Well, nuclear proliferation is
not in our interest. We don't want more
countries getting nuclear weapons.
Obviously, some countries have them, but
if you use that as the rationalization
for everyone being able to have them,
then you're going to end up with 200
countries have nuclear weapons. So, I
think the nuclear non-prololiferation
regime is in the interest of the United
States. We all understand the danger of
these weapons. The more countries that
have them, the more dangerous the world
becomes. Now, it is true that
unofficially the Israelis have nuclear
weapons, but like you were saying
before, if Iran gets nukes, then Saudi
Arabia will be forced to get nukes and
so on down the line. And so there will
be a domino effect with each country
that gets nuclear weapons. More
countries around them will feel the need
that are threatened to have their own
deterrent. And the question is just
where you stop this. And I think we just
want to stop it here. We don't want more
countries getting nuclear weapons,
particularly ones that we have hostile
relations with. Yeah. And the the last
country to give up their nuclear
weapons, Ukraine. Really bad decision
perhaps, I think. Well, that was in the
'90s, actually. Yeah. Another country
gave up their nuclear weapons program,
which was Libya. Y and what happened to
Gaddafi? He got killed by rebels who
were being backed by the United States
after he gave up his nuclear weapons
program. Yeah, I think that was a really
they had them though. They actually had
the weapons, not just a program, right?
But there's some there's some truth to
that, but that's a little bit
simplifying the situation because what
happened is at the end of the Soviet
Union, there were a bunch of Soviet
nukes that were in Ukraine. But as I
understand it, the launch codes were in
Moscow. So these were Soviet nuclear
weapons that happened to be on Ukrainian
soil and then when the Soviet Union came
apart they were there but they were
always under the control of Moscow. And
so I don't think that the Ukrainians
gave up much because they were never
their nukes. It's not clear they could
have used them. And one final point on
this is that it was the Russian
government and the American government
that pressured Ukraine to comply because
we don't want more countries having
nuclear weapons. Okay, let's um get on
to this Democratic socialist who's on
the verge of becoming New York City's
mayor,
littleknown New York State Assemblyman,
Zoron Mam Donnie, took the internet by
storm this week. Shocked the world,
beating out Andrew Cuomo for the
Democratic nomination. Here's the poly
market chart. Just crazy. One month ago,
Cuomo was at 93%.
Zoron
had a 6% chance. My lord, what a flip.
A couple of things happened that led to
this. Obviously, a bunch of viral
moments. He's a great speaker. Reminds
me of Vake in in that regard. Really
good uh you know, in debates and and
speaking publicly. Started rising in the
polls. Got a ton of endorsements from
millennials, Gen Z, AOC, endorsed him as
well. And uh now he is mom Donnie is the
75% favorite to beat Eric Adams. But
looks like Eric Adams is gonna get a
shocking amount of support because
people don't want a democratic socialist
who's got some really unique and
colorful history
of becoming the mayor of one of the
greatest cities in the world, my
hometown. He wants to have free buses.
Doesn't sound like that big of a deal.
He wants to freeze rent and triple the
development of affordable housing.
City-owned government grocery stores.
That sounds crazy. a $30 minimum wage.
New York's at$,650, by the way. Uh he
wants to defund the police, replace the
cops with social workers in high crime
areas. A bunch of really wacky,
interesting proposals. And uh you were,
I think, on to this early. Freedberg, in
your predictions last year, you saw this
coming. Again, if you listen to the
number one podcast in the world, you're
gonna get this information a year
earlier than everybody else. That's why
we are the number one podcast in the
world. Freeberg, maybe you talk a little
bit about your prediction last year and
uh where we are right now and your
reaction for this. I don't know,
perplexing, shocking. Is this
perplexing, shocking, or obvious to you?
For me, it feels like actually a little
bit of a beginning of a wave that's
going to continue to sweep over this
country starting in cities. And I think
that we're at the very early stages. I
think we'll look back and I jokingly say
that Kla Harris is going to look like a
conservative candidate pretty soon. And
I do think that this is a broad kind of
reaction to the economic condition of
the United States. And I've talked a lot
of people don't quite recognize and see
how important the debt and the deficit
is with respect to how it's ultimately
going to lead to socialism as it has
every single time in history when you've
had a free voting democracy, a
representative democracy that becomes
encumbered with too much debt. So Nick,
if you'll pull up this chart, it'll just
show you a microcosm of it and
specifically how it played out in New
York and how it will continue to play
out in cities. This is the total amount
of student loan debt in the last 20
years. is the student loan debt has
ballooned from 500 billion to 2
trillion. 4 million college graduates
per year in the United States. About 40%
of them have student loan debt that they
leave. That means that in the last 20
years, 80 million people, young people
have graduated from college. And they've
accured $ 1.5 trillion of new debt. And
based on the percentage and the
distribution, that means the average
debt for these individuals is sitting
around $60,000.
So you're a young person. Where do those
young people go? Where do they live? And
remember, there's about 32 million of
them. They live in cities. They don't go
back to rural towns. Most of that
population sits in cities. It sits in
New York, sits in Los Angeles, sits in
Seattle, sits in San Francisco, sits in
Portland, and sit in Chicago. And what
we're seeing in those cities is a
massive political shift. People call it
left, but it's actually quite different
than just being more traditionally left.
It's really a revolution against the
system that brought them to this moment
because the promise that we gave in
America, the American dream was if you
will go to college, you will graduate,
you will have income, you will have
stability, you will be able to buy a
home. And what we did is we increased
the government's role in making that
dream possible. And in doing so, we
created effectively a system where we
gave unrestricted access to capital
which inflated the cost of education.
People could go to school like Zoran and
major in African studies at Bowden
College. They could get a a loan and
graduate with 200 $300,000 of debt and
then never get a job. The guy has not
had a real job. And this is the truth
for 32 million young Americans. They
find themselves living in places where
they cannot afford to pay their bills
every month and they will never get out
of the debt cycle that they were thrust
into and believe that they were going to
be able to graduate from and excel in
the world and increase. They all have
what is called negative capital. They
have debt and they will never be able to
get out of that cycle. So where do you
turn in that moment? You don't go turn
to corporations to solve your problems.
You don't go turn to your friends and
your siblings and your family. They're
not going to bail you out. You turn to
the voting booth and you hear a guy like
Zoran show up and say there can be a
better path forward. The better path
forward is the government can and should
do more to help. And in doing more to
help, we will increase government. We
will tax the rich. We will tax the
corporations. We will take all of that
capital and we will redistribute it in
the form of services and checks and
support for all of the people that find
themselves unable to take care of
themselves. And this becomes a tipping
point when the majority of the voter
base ends up in that situation where
they're that deeply in need where they
have negative capital. And that is the
situation America finds itself in today.
There is no easy answer and there is no
easy solution out of this. But I can
tell you one thing for sure that in
historical perspective we have seen it
time and time again across dozens of
countries that have embraced socialism
to get out of the debt cycle that
ultimately absorbs and and swallows up
the young. It swallows up every family.
It swallows up every person in the
working class with debt. They're
swaddled with it. And they all try and
get out of it by increasing government
and embracing these socialist concepts.
And it has never ever worked. More
government is not the answer. Less
government is. We can get into that. But
if you look at the results, Zoran won 61
to 39 with college educated. Young
people voted for him. Old people did not
as much. White people voted for him
because they went to college. Non-white
people did not as much. At the end of
the day, young collegeed educated white
people elected this guy and that is the
beginning of a wave that will sweep over
America. And I really do worry about
where this takes us. So way to go for
dummies.
Yeah. I mean the you're correct. He won
amongst Asians why it's college
educated. And to put a finer point on
it, Freeberg, it really isn't just
college. It's the cost of college.
Increases in the cost of college degrees
have outpaced the wage growth of
entry-level salaries by 10x over the
last 20 years. You could go 300,000
400,000 not in debt, but that might be
what you paid for those degrees in those
major cities and you don't believe in
capitalism anymore and you believe that
you need to tax the rich. Just one
warning for people in these states, in
these cities. We saw this sachs in San
Francisco. We saw the the the doom
spiral. You and I worked on the Ches
Bodin recall and now they have Dan Lori
there and things are starting to slowly
turn around a bit in Los Angeles. We saw
this with Karen Bass. They didn't vote
for Rick Caruso. He would have been an
amazing mayor. They voted for
incompetence. And these people are
voting for incompetence and a plan that
will not work because twothirds of the
tax base in New York is paid for by the
top 10% who are leaving. People will
leave. They will see that Austin and
Miami are fantastic cities to live in at
half the price, a third of the price,
and you get a tax break, and you can
always go back to New York and
California and hang out for a month and
get whatever values left in those cities
that hasn't been destroyed by these
socialists and the incompetent people
running them. Saxs, what are your
thoughts on what's happening in New York
City specifically? Well, you're right
that every generation seems to need to
learn this lesson for themselves because
they don't study history and they they
don't see that socialism always fails
wherever it's tried. San Francisco went
through this. I mean, it was a doom
spiral. Uh now, I think we've turned the
corner. LA is in the midst of going
through it and a large portion of LA
just burned down because there's no
water in the fire hydrants. Basically,
all the public services have been looted
and New York is about to learn this for
themselves. So it just seems like every
generation just has to learn this.
There's no way to teach them. So I do
think that that is one thing that's
going on. I I do agree with Freeberg
that a big underlying root cause here is
the student debt is the fact that these
kids have negative capital. They've got
no skin in the game. They graduate from
college with worthless degrees and
massive amounts of debt. That debt was
not used to make their education better.
Universities have been using the
spiraling tuitions to fund massive
amounts of bureaucracy, you know, for
DEI and woke and all sorts of stuff like
that. And these kids have no prospect of
getting out of debt or being able to buy
a home. So, they just have no skin in
the game. And so, this is part of why
they're they're turning against
capitalism. One thing we need to do, by
the way, is we need to make the student
debt dischargeable in bankruptcy. is one
of the only it's the only kind of debt
that you can't get out of through
bankruptcy. And if we were to make that
change, at least these kids would have a
way out. They have no skin in the game.
The universities have absolutely no
incentive to keep prices down and create
a competitive or economic incentive for
making sure that their degrees work. The
only group that possibly could would be
true capital lenders. People like banks
or underwriters that are saying, "Here's
a loan because I expect you to be able
to pay it back." There's no underwriting
in student loans today. There's no
underwriting. The student loan program,
the federal student loan program needs
to go away because when it goes away, if
it goes to zero and people might say,
"Oh, that's awful. You're taking away
education." What will happen is the
capital markets will flood to fill that
hole. Banks and lenders will show up and
they will say, "You know what? We'll
underwrite the loans." But they'll
underwrite it by saying good colleges
get the get get loans and bad colleges
don't. Good degrees get the loans, bad
degrees don't. And people that are
expected to pay back the loans will now
get loans. and all of the rest of the
money that's caused everyone to end up
in this debt spiral will stop and we'll
be able to kind of recover from it. It's
ironic that a problem that is being
caused by government is going to lead to
socialism. It's going to lead to maximum
government which will then create the
next spiral of problems. But I agree
with you. I think this is very sad. But
let me let me me also say I think
there's one other thing going on here
which is beyond just sort of the lack of
skin of the game here which is the
failure of the Democratic establishment.
It's basically completely antiquated,
desiccated and out of touch. And who was
Mam Donnie running against? Andrew Cuomo
who is really a perfect avatar for this
establishment. He's a retread. He's been
around for decades. He'd probably be
finishing his fourth term as governor
except for a harassment scandal that
forces resignation.
He's 67, which is something of a spring
chicken by the standards of Democrat
gerontocracy, but he's twice the age of
my dami, who's 33. And Cuomo hasn't even
lived in New York City for three
decades. He wanted to mount a political
comeback that no one was asking for. And
the Democratic establishment just fell
in line rather than having a proper
contest to choose a less damaged, more
dynamic candidate. He's a Nepo baby too,
right? So, you know, does this sound
familiar? I mean, this is exactly what
happened with Biden is that no one
wanted him to run again. He was
obviously a a very weak candidate, but
the Democratic establishment just fell
in line and covered up his weaknesses
and they use lawfare to take out his
opponents totally rather than trying to
find a more dynamic candidate. And by
the way, one of the reasons why Maami is
set to become mayor is because the
Democratic establishment used lawfare
against Eric Adams to basically weaken
him and take him out over some plane
tickets. I thought this was a very weak
corruption. There were upgrades. There
were upgrades even like it was so
insane. It's it's a pretty crazy pretty
crazy by political scandals. This is a
really lame one. Yeah. And it was done
because Eric Adams stepped out of line
and was willing to criticize unions and
buck unions and he was for the police.
He was basically a Democrat who was
willing to take contrarian positions on
a lot of things and they took him out
with lawfare and that is now they got
something much worse. Did you see Chuck
Schumer and Bill Clinton put out ringing
endorsements and congratulations to
Mandi this morning which you know I
think the Overton windows blown open on
this. Now, I do think that the
Democrats, to your point, Saxs, are
embracing the socialist agenda as the
new agenda that is clearly going to win
the youthful vote for them. At a 70
rating, they finally woken up to the
fact that they can't have no agenda.
They can't have nothing that they stand
for, which is effectively my read on
what's been the case for the last year
and a half, two years for the Democratic
Party. They now have something to stand
for, which is these principles of
socialism, which they call justice and
equity and fairness and redistribution
of capital and all these other features
that were kind of rung out at the
Mandani campaign and everyone embraced
and ran to. The Democratic leadership
perked up like a bunch of prairie dogs
popping out of the ground like this is
now going to be the way we're going to
win. Great. We're all over it. Let's do
it. They're accepting the inevitable.
Look, the Democratic party right now is
the Democratic establishment is in the
process of being remade now the way that
the Republican establishment was remade
a decade ago. So remember a decade ago
the Republican party was dominated by
people like Dole and McCain and Romney
and various Bush retreads and it was
antiquated and out of touch and Trump
came in there and remade it as a
nationalist populist Republican party.
And I think in a similar way, you now
have these socialists who've come in in
the Democratic party and they are
remaking the Democratic party in the
same way that that Trump replaced
neoonservatism with populist
nationalism. They are replacing
neoliberalism with you could call it
populist socialism. Yes. And those are
the choices for the future. Let me tell
you, you can basically go with you're
going to have a a populist socialism in
the Democratic party or you're going to
have a populist nationalism in the
Republican party. And to all my friends
on the tech right, your choices in the
future are not going to be neoliberalism
or neoconservatism. It's going to be do
you want republican nationalism or do
you want democrat socialism? Those are
going to be your choices. So I would get
with the program here because your
choices are MAGA or socialism. Which one
do you want? I there is a third way. But
Chimath, what are your thoughts here in
terms of there is since we're here,
there is actually a path out of here
which is telling the truth to young
people. Your college degree is not going
to get you an amazingly high-paying job.
What will get you an amazingly
high-paying job is excellence,
learning skills, and having radical
self-reliance. Being reliant on the
state, being reliant on the government
is a path to nowhere. It's a path to
pain and suffering. to constantly be
looking for this guy to create a bread
line in his own series of Costos, which
is the stupidest thing I've ever heard.
That he thinks that you're going to be
able to create in New York City a series
of government-run stores. Does anybody
have any sense to the arc of history
that he wants to create breadlines and
and literally have the state provide you
with food at this promised discount?
It's absurd. Leave the state. Vote with
your feet. go to Austin, go to Miami, go
to another state where radical
self-reliance and your ability to create
your own opportunities and not get
suckered into this debt spiral. That is
the path out and that will be a new
party that will emerge at some point.
Some rational group of people are going
to say get skills, don't get debt.
Shimoth, what are your thoughts on all
this? And then we'll move on to the next
subject. I think the three of you guys
are a little exaggerated to be quite
honest. I mean, all the rhetoric sounds
very clever, but I don't think it's
accurate. I think the way that I see it
is more nuanced than this. I think
what's happened is that Zoron Mdani
is very smart and is running a playbook
to win like all politicians do based on
a formula that has been winning in large
cities for the past decade.
And so I don't know if he really
believes in this rhetoric or not, but
it's worth noting that most of his
platform is copied and pasted from
London and Chicago.
So the things that he's talked about,
universal basic free meals, affordable
housing, freezing the cost of
transportation, public grocery stores,
all three of you are reacting like these
things were pulled out of thin air.
They're not. These were the public
platforms of the mayors who have won in
London in Vienna in Havana, Cuba and in
Chicago. So I think the reason why this
works is that these are small pockets in
the end of a large political spectrum.
Even though New York feels big, it isn't
that big in the context of the United
States. And what you see is that when
you try to take those policies in a
city, take London,
and then level it up at the national
level, there's a quick schism that
happens. So if you look at labor and
labor trying to scale up the policies of
a Sadi Khan in London throughout the
country, Labor is now at the absolute
the Labor Party the absolute lowest
approval ratings in the UK of any party
ever in this moment in time after an
election. So I think what you're
probably seeing is quite a sophisticated
AB test. And I think that the political
wingmen and the money people that want
to be in control
know how to run candidates on platforms
that can win. And this is a clear
winning strategy in left-leaning major
metropolitan centers. So what I would
say just to refine what you guys are
saying is that this platform is not new.
I've seen it for the last decade. I
think you're going to see it for the
next few decades. it doesn't work.
And so you're going to see the same
results in New York City that you've
already seen in London, which has become
unlivable sadly. One of my favorite
cities in the world. If you don't
believe it, go visit there.
Chicago, which I haven't been to in 15
years and will never go to. It's a
disaster. So my my point is it just
doesn't work. So you can win.
It actually isn't very effective and it
doesn't scale to the national level.
When do you think it returns, Jimat?
Like what's the reversal? Like do you
think the reversal is everyone has some
experience with crime? Is the reversal
like the city's bankrupt? Is the
reversal your house is burning. You
don't have you're unemployed.
Unemployment hits with water in the
pipes. I'll tell you something which is
my view. My view is much more basic.
It's it's much less sophisticated than I
think what you're saying. My extremely
simpleton view of things is that humans
swing in a pendulum-like fashion between
poles and over multi-deade arcs you go
between the thing that works to the
thing that should work now because it's
not the thing before. So, I suspect what
happens is that New York takes a 40 or
50-year journey and at some point it
will look like New York of the 80s. And
at that point, you'll have an Ed Cook-l
like figure. You'll have a David
Dinkens-like figure. You'll have a
Michael Bloomberg like figure. You'll
have the broken windows theory of
policing reemerge as the cause celeb
and the cycle will repeat itself. So, I
tend to think that these things are just
between two poles. We've spent a lot of
time in this more independent
self-reliance poll.
A lot of people will want to experiment
with this other thing. It just doesn't
prove to work. And in the absence of
something cataclysmically bad, I don't
think it's going to change. Having lived
there and experienced Dinkens and, you
know, Cotch to Dinkens and then Giuliani
to Bloomberg, I can tell you it's going
to be reallying miserable to be in a
Dinkens era. The city was chaos. It was
dangerous. If you got off the wrong
subway stop, it was going to result in
you getting robbed at gun. They're gonna
have to go through They're gonna have to
go through that. That's London today.
The the London subway cost $35 to go
from the suburbs of London into the
center of London. $35. Okay, that is
ridiculous, right? You can't walk with
your cell phone in central London
anymore cuz there are more cell phone
thefts than anything. There's knife
attacks everywhere.
Why is that?
Well, you've had an agenda that was
meant to be this socialist left-leaning
let's resolve all these problems for
everybody and it turns out to not work
at a very basic factual level and every
time it's been repeated over the last 15
years, it still hasn't worked. So, if
you think that this guy is going to be
the exception that proves the rule in
New York, I wish him the best of luck.
But I would be short New York real
estate. I think it's going to crash and
burn and then we'll pick up the pieces
and we'll reset. All right, let me pick
up on on something Jamal said about U M
what's his name? Zoran
say the Zoron.
Do you guys remember that movie Big and
he would go to the arcade and wasn't it
called Ask Zoron and you and Zoron?
Ask Zoron, can I have free pizza? I'm
going to run for New York mayor and I'm
offering everybody free pizza and
bagels. I'm going to win. Let me let me
let me pick up on on what said about
Zoran running an effective campaign
because it is true. And I think one of
his best moments was during a debate
where the moderator asked the
candidates, "Which foreign country would
you visit first as mayor of New York
City?" And the other candidates said,
"Ukraine or Israel?" They're basically
virtue signaling. And then they get to
Mamani and he said, "Nowhere. I wouldn't
go anywhere. I would stay in New York
City. I would work for the people here.
I wouldn't be going to foreign capitals.
And he just crushed that answer. Now,
his political solutions, his programs
are not going to work. But the reason
why he's catching fire is partly because
he is putting New York first. The same
way that President Trump is putting
America first. The American people are
sick and tired of the politicians
focusing on far away places instead of
their problems at home. Yes, it's like
the Biden administration going off and
defending the border of Ukraine while
leaving the border of the United States
wide open. And I think that even, you
know, over the last couple weeks, you
saw that substantial majorities of the
American people did not want to get into
a new Middle Eastern war. And I think
this is the failure of both the
neoliberals and the neoconservatives,
which aren't that far apart. They are
clinging to this postw World War II
fantasy of America being this global
empire where we have to be the global
policeman while America back home is
collapsing or at least rotting suffering
and they suffering they want the
politicians to be focusing on our
problems back 100% and Karen Bass is
that moment like if you need to
understand that moment she's in Ghana
she knew this place was going to go on
fire she extends her trip she doesn't
come back like just to the highest
degree all All right. There's a lot of
other stuff on um the docket. I I we
could go two ways, but I I think
Freeberg, I want to get you involved
since I know you got to get to a
meeting. Can we go to the AI story,
which I think you would care most about,
or you want to go Marcus Freeberg?
Lady's choice. Freeberg, you choose. Or
do you want me to do Science Corner real
quick cuz then you guys can keep going.
I love Science Corner. Absolutely. Uh
ready guys, it's time for a bathroom
break. I'm sorry. Science corner. Uh for
It's time for Sax. Is that funny? Here
we go. I don't get why that's funny.
Two. One. Science. He's taking a leap. I
think he's taking a leap in a bottle.
Did he finish the tequila bottle?
Sacks. Get back on camera. I don't get
it. I need the head of science. He's
drinking. That's it. When Science Corner
starts, we all do a double of that allin
premia premium tequila tequila. So
smooth. It makes you forget about
science corner, right? It even makes
Science Corner less sufferable. I'm not
feeling any pain. No pain. No pain.
Zach, you know you're in charge of
science for the government, right? I am.
Under duress. Under duress. No, that's
that's Michael Pratzios. I just do my
two issues. I've got AI and crypto. All
right. Listen. Shout out to our sponsor
this week. Nicotine Chilled Mint. The
reason my moderation is so on point. Are
we doing Are we doing one of those with
with I I'm doing it twice a day. I did
two. So far in this episode, you're
hooked on app now. Are we getting paid
for that or are you getting paid for
that? No, I thought use the promo code
JCAL and get two extra free of the Nick.
We're not doing any private promos on
this show. We are. I have a private
editor. He's got his own side deals.
He's got his own side deals. Exactly.
He's doing a side deal right now. He's
doing his deal. It's called Wet Your
Beak. If you want to make money, you
share with the group. That's how it
works. I'm just giving a shout out to my
guy who drives our ratings. He's like
the guy at the valet stand who's putting
the tips in his own pocket instead of
putting them in the kitty. It's called
entrepreneurship. It's called
entrepreneurship. You want your car out
front. Nick, I want I want to bleep. I
want to bleep and blur out all of that
stuff. Yeah. Pixelate this. Just
pixelate it. You guys want to talk about
age reversal? Okay. Yeah, let's talk
about age reversal while I hit this. As
is the case with most cutting edge
science nowadays, it is coming out of
China, not out of the United States. So
this research study was done on age
reversal. We've talked about using these
Yamanaka factors to change the epigenome
of cells and make them youthful again.
In this particular case, the study was
done on engineering stem cells that were
then placed into the bodies of monkeys
and reverse the age of these monkeys on
the order of what would be the
equivalent in humans of several decades
of age reversal. It's a pretty amazing
and astounding result. So cell therapy
is the modality that would be kind of
employed at scale for humans to utilize
this tool. There's a lot of work that's
been done in age reversal in mice, some
work in primates, some work in humans
now, and there's obviously a few
startups doing this based on the studies
and research around Yamanaka factors. So
kind of changing the epigenome and
effectively getting cells to act
youthful again. In this particular case,
this team focused on a specific gene
that it is known that when this gene is
expressed or overexpressed, meaning the
gene is turned on, it actually creates a
whole bunch of signaling molecules,
little tiny molecules that then get
absorbed by other cells and tell those
cells to start to act young again and
reset those cells. And that gene is
called FOX03.
So what this research team did is they
took stem cells
And they engineered them using crisper
to get them to overexpress FOX3. And so
now these cells start making this FOX3
protein. And when that cell starts
making that FOX3 protein, it actually
makes a whole bunch of other molecules,
little small proteins, little molecules.
They then get packaged up into what are
called exoomes. These are like little
packets that get spun out of the cell
and they get absorbed by other cells and
trigger those cells, we don't know how,
we don't know why necessarily to start
acting young again. So they engineered
these stem cells, overexpressed FOX03
and then put these stem cells in these
monkeys. And these monkeys were kind of
the equivalent of being 60 years old.
And then they looked at what happened.
So what happened? Well, they looked at
tissue, they looked at blood, and they
did MRIs and scans of the brain. And
what they found is that the monkeykey's
brains effectively started to get
completely rewired and act like young
brains again. They were able to increase
their memory, increase their
responsiveness. Their age related
atrophy reversed. So their brains
actually grew. Uh their bone started to
grow, their muscle started to grow,
their blood cells started to reverse
aging signals. So across bone
degeneration reversed. They looked at 61
different tissues from 10 distinct
systems in the uh the bodies of these
monkeys after they received the stem
cell treatment and uh 54% of the tissue
examined showed reversal of age. In the
case of lungs they saw in monkeys it was
a four-year age reversal which is 12
years in humans. Skin reversed by 6
years which is the equivalent of 18
years in humans. So imagine a
60-year-old person taking this suddenly
they're 40 years old in their skin.
skeletal muscle went by 5 years in the
monkeys, which is the equivalent of 15
years in humans. So imagine going from
being 60 years old to having the body of
a 45year-old in terms of muscles, the
spleen, the brain, all across these
different systems. They saw significant
signals of age reversal. And then they
identified these little exosomes. These
are like little sacks that are spun out
of the cell and then they go into other
cells and they start to trigger all of
this age reversal cascade that happens.
And by the way, they saw no side
effects. They saw no negative health
effect. There was no increase in cancer.
These are the sorts of things you
typically look for. And in tissue, in uh
blood cells, in MRI, across the board,
they saw age reversal. So, it was a
really kind of incredible result. And I
think that it opens up the door for this
idea of using cell therapy based on stem
cells that are engineered to be injected
into blood to actually reverse aging in
humans. And I think that we should
expect over the next couple of years
these sorts of trials to kind of begin
to see if we can see similar results.
There's a lot of background work by the
way in FOX3 in this particular gene. A
lot of background work in engineering
stem cells. A lot of background work
obviously in Yamanaka factor and other
age reversal that predicated this. But
this particular paper, I think, put a
lot of things together and showed some
some pretty nice results. Do you think
Yamanaka factors
are the thing still, or do you think
that there's going to be a lot of other
genetic manipulations that
advance age reversal before Yamanaka
factors do? The latter is more of this
what we call like a complex cascade of
proteins and molecules that we haven't
identified yet, that we don't know how
or why they do what they do. That's what
we just saw with this study. We don't
know what's in those exosome sacks and
we don't know why they cause other cells
to reverse their age. We don't quite
understand the mechanism. It's really
hard. So I think that this becomes sort
of call it an easier path. Whereas with
the Yamanaka factors, if you apply too
much, the cells don't just rejuvenate,
they can become, you know, cancerous.
Let me let me ask it more directly.
Other than the novelty of all of this,
do you think there will be something in
the market, some injectable or something
that's average people like us can take
in the next 5 or 10 years to solve a
problem that we have or to live longer
with higher health? Yes, there are
clinicals underway right now and I know
of the clinical trials that are underway
like in stage three, you're saying phase
three clinical trials early stage one in
humans like 1A. Yeah, very early. So
maybe a decade from now. I think that's
right. Well, look, I mean, let's see
what the FDA does, but the FDA is trying
to accelerate outcomes here, as you
know. Blake Buyers came to my house for
poker.
He's sponsoring a study at UCSF, which I
thought was incredible. You know, the
gene that allows Donald Trump to sleep
four hours. Yeah, they've isolated that
gene. Yeah. Clinton had that gene, too.
and Blake is sponsoring a trial to
basically
edit a handful of subjects who want that
gene to see if they can sleep 4 hours
and be rested. So, I don't know if you
guys know this and he explained this to
me and it makes so much sense, but I
didn't realize it. We sleep 20 years of
our life we're sleeping. Yeah. And so,
if you can cut it in half, you get an
extra 10 years of living. If you think
about it like that way, that is an
incredible reason to, you know, do the
gene editing to get the Trump gene.
But the the thing that nobody knows what
the Well, this is all day and play poker
all night. The thing that they don't
know is, you know, Trump and Clinton
were born with that gene from day one.
And what they don't know is what could
go wrong if you injected and manipulated
yourself in the at the age of 30 or 40
or 50. Yeah, of course.
But wouldn't it be incredible if you
could all of a sudden only sleep four or
five hours and be completely rested?
Well, do you remember at the All-In
Summit Vicky Pollock? She gave a talk on
this gene. That was her opening piece. I
mean, that's definitely in site lab. I
know there's a bunch of labs working on
that exact gene target, but this this
was just amazing because this is a cell
therapy. So, you can kind of think about
getting an injection done. You get an
infusion done of these stem cells and
all of a sudden your skin is 20 years
younger. It's incredible.
Like my actually plays out your
foreskin. Yeah, if you have it.
I kept it cuz it's like it's like a
sheath. It's like a sheath for the
anaconda.
Like a sleeping bag. It's a It's like a
sleeping bag.
Free. Okay. Very good. It's like a man
sleeping in a sleeping bag. Sleeping
with like a little hood. We're back,
folks. We're back. It's been a strange
six months, but the pot is officially
backed. We are so back. The NASDAQ's at
an alltime high. We've got IPOs. The
wrath of Lena's over. He's pandering
with his dog. Science Corn is back.
Sachs is double fisting. I'm double
fisting. I mean, tequila is so good. We
got to get some bottles for Vegas this
weekend. We got to get you a double
straw. Hey, David, can you send somebody
to the order to my plane with some
bottles or no? Yeah, please. Do you have
an extra few? I I only have this one at
home, but we have some. We have them
here. Actually, Freeberg, I I brought
two bottles to the Bay Area, so I can
take them from my house. I'll bring
them. Yeah. Also, uh Nick, just take a
note. Can I get one of those bottles
just deliver it to United Flight 376
uh to Vegas from I'll be in C2C terminal
2.
If you could send it to the Centurion
Lounge.
I just got upgraded to the Centurion
Lounge. Um, also, [ __ ] the Centurion.
Did you get the Did you Did you follow
up with the guys from Robin Hood to get
the gold card? You didn't get a gold
card yet? Well, he was the only one.
Vlad texted me and said, "Hey,
Freeberg's the only He's the only best
without it." So, the only get one.
Absolutely. Your invite got lost in the
mail. Gold card. Oh, look. I have mine
here. Here I have mine. But you know
where this came from? This came from
the startup that I funded that got
acquired by Robin Hood. So, those guys
did a great job. So, now you got double
Robin Hood shares. You got it from that
from Launchp and Sid. Great job. Great
job. It's it's an it's a great app by
the way. And if you move your money into
there, they give you and your crypto,
they give you like 102%. And shout out
to shout out to Brian Armstrong. I'm
getting my Coinbase Bitcoin card. Oh,
they have a coin. Oh, I thought you were
saying you were watching the all You get
4% You get 4% cash back in Bitcoin. I
mean, wow. I'm I'm going to buy a
another Global 7500. Like $7 million.
You're now happy. I mean, that was the
saddest day of your life. You got rid of
the 7500.
I mean, that plane is expensive. So,
it's not like Jamat, when are you going
back from Italy? He's like, I'm coming
back on this date. I was like, okay, I'm
coming out 10 days before that. I'm
flying home with you. I booked my trip
on Jamat's return flight on the 7500.
That is a beautiful plane. So, I I
actually flew on that recently cuz my
plane broke down and I charged a 7500
and man, that is a gorgeous plane. It's
a great plane. Did you see the It's a
little overkill to be quite honest with
you. It was It was a little overkill. My
favorite was that, you know, you have
two tables for dinner and there's a leaf
that goes in between the two and you
make a full table for six.
My lord. By the way, you guys, do you
know how good Starlink is on these
airplanes now? Incredible. I flew to
Toronto and then Toronto back to LA. I
didn't miss a beat. I had Starlink. I
was doing Zooms. I was making phone
calls. I have never been more
productive. And then I was just watching
YouTube. And it's like I was on the
ground in my living room. It's crazy. I
think the only thing that you should be
searching for when you're flying is is
it Argus Platinum? Yes. And does it have
Starlink? I It's the only thing I I was
on the first one. I was on Elon's
playing with it when he first put it on
and it was nuts. He was playing Diablo
and I'm watching Netflix at the same
time. No latency. I'm watching 4K
Netflix. I was streaming. It was
bonkers. And United, the entire fleet's
going to have my preferred airline. Uh I
think it's like this could change
productivity. You think about the flight
to the Middle East or Singapore, Asia,
Japan, when I go skiing in January with
Tucker, all that is now going to be
productive hours and then we're not
going to sleep. So, it's like you get
two careers. You could be a podcaster
and a venture capitalist. That's it.
That's crazy. All right. The stock
market is nearing a record high. In
fact, Uber hit a record high today, just
two months after the big uh Trump tariff
chaos and the market going down 15 30%.
We've had a full recovery from Trump's
liberation day tariff announcement.
Yeah, market might even be up 1 2 3 4%.
Since then, they called it a stunning
turnaround at your favorite network.
Sachs CNN called it a stunning
turnaround. Lots of different things are
contributing to this. Obviously, you got
the ceasefire in the Middle East. You've
got the trade deals with UK and a truce
with China. NASDAQ 100 is at an all-time
high. You know, there's there's also
with these tech companies the perfect
storm. M&A is back on the menu. People
are buying companies again. That equals
growth. People are continuing to lay off
the dead weight. So, you're having
earnings rise. And then the product
announcements coming out of big tech
which I think you sort of alluded to
that American companies are firing on
all cylinders earlier in the program.
Chimath all of this is amazing. The AI
trade is on. So this all equals though.
However, big controversy Freedberg.
What's the point of cutting rates if
we're at an all-time high and uh
employment is somewhat full? There are
some um concerns there. We'll get into
it, but what are your thoughts here on
the market and then you know Trump is
going hard at pal saying he's going to
fire him saying he's an idiot he's
stupid blah blah blah this is the guy he
placed by the way so freeber what are
your thoughts here and then we'll go to
you I'm not sure that equity market
prices going up is necessarily
the best indicator of where we are
because we did have negative GDP growth
in Q1 arguably there was a lot of tariff
blipping happening in Q1 one, but
there's a real question on this GDP
growth outlook for the rest of this
year, and we're still running a modest
inflation. When you combine those two,
and you combine the government deficit
right now, there's an argument to be
made that we're actually seeing assets
inflate, not necessarily.
So, multiples are going up. M I think
that may actually be a result of kind of
an indication that we expect rates to
cut that we expect to increase the money
supply and um again remember when you
end up in this debt death spiral
all assets go up in value they all
increase because you start to flood
things with cash and as you flood things
with printed money when you start to
print more money everything goes up in
price. So, one argument here might be
that we're actually not necessarily
seeing an improvement in the fundamental
business environment. We're not seeing
record revenue across the board. As we
talked about last week, the S&P 493 are
really struggling relative to the uh MAG
7
and there's a really kind of
questionable outlook ahead for the vast
majority of equity cap out there. So I I
would say that there might be a bit of
an inflationary aspect to this, not
necessarily just a pure like business
performance upgrade that that we're
saying. All right, we got Dr. Doom's
position. I mean that respectfully. Uh
but give us the other side, Shimoth, if
you have one. Yeah. I mean, look, if I
was a betting man, which I am, you are.
I think the the free money trade here is
to be levered long, I think you can make
a lot of money right now. Why is that?
The first chart I want to show you is
the velocity of money. So what is this?
This is the M2 money supply. It's a
measure of how much money is circulating
in the economy. What this shows is the
impact of rates where we were able to
start to slow down and contract the
money supply.
But then as you saw as the economy
stabilized and people started to project
was possible in 18 to 24 months, you
started to see money coming back into
the system. That's what has given a bid
to the equity markets. That's great
because a percentage of this capital
gets allocated into things that can
generate a superior return to money
markets. And that's where the bid to the
equity market came from. So you would
say, well, where does it go from here?
The next chart, Nick, if you just give
the second one, is look at how much
money, and again, you can just look at
the last five years. Look at how much
money is sitting in money market funds.
And what this starts to show you is you
have trillions and trillions of dollars
of dry powder on the sidelines that will
need to find a home.
I think that Jerome Powell is in an
increasingly untenuous situation
because he will be looked at as
politicizing the office of the Federal
Reserve. There is enough data that can
justify cutting rates. If you cut rates,
and we've talked about this before, two
things will happen. Number one is people
will take some amount of money out of
the money market funds because they will
want to go and seek superior returns
somewhere else. It will increase the
velocity of money at the same time. You
put those two things together, that is a
bid to the equity markets. And so if
we're at an all-time high today with
rates at 4 and a.5% and Powell back
against the wall to cut,
the only road from here is probably up.
And so you could see this thing get
rerated quite aggressively. And then the
question is, do you do it where you
manage your risk and you're short some
stuff or do you just say, you know what,
I'm just going to take it all up and
take most of my shorts off and let the
thing go. I think that if Powell starts
an aggressive cutting program, either
because he has to or because he's trying
to keep his job, I mean, man, you could
see the S&P at 7,000
very quickly.
Sachs, uh, yeah, obviously you're a
member of the administration, so I don't
want to make sure people know you're not
speaking for the administration, but um,
I guess your personal thoughts
on the markets here and what the right
thing for Powell to do is because he
does seem to be in an untenable
position. He's being criticized super
heavily. He might even have his
replacement announced, you know, before
his term is even up in the spring. And
gosh, you know what? What is the reason
for Powell to cut rates if everything's
going so well and then he would look
like maybe he poured gasoline on what
appears to be, you know, a pretty robust
economic fire right now?
That's not the right way to look at it.
The question is just what's the
inflation rate relative to interest
rates? And inflation has come down all
the way to I think 2.4%. So it's way
down. We're back to a two handle. I
think inflation has largely been licked
and it's time to start lowering interest
rates and that will be good for the
economy. There's no reason for rates to
be as high as they are. It'll also be
good in terms of financing our debt. So,
I think that it is time for Pal to act
and I think he's being overly cautious
here. He's being slow here. Just like he
was slow to raise at the beginning of
the cycle, he's being slow to cut at the
end of the cycle. And again, I think
he's just afraid of being proven wrong
here. But I think that the timing is
right to start the cuts. Now to go back
to the question of how do you trade this
market? I mean I have a very simple idea
which is anytime that the media tries to
sew doom or spread panic about the Trump
administration's policies that's a good
time to buy. We saw this when Jim Kramer
started touting the Black Monday that
was coming and Larry Summers has been
out there constantly with his TDS.
Whenever the media puts these experts on
to tell you that there's chaos and doom,
that has proven to be an excellent time
to buy the dip. So, I think this is a
very easy way to trade the Trump
presidency. I mean, the conspiracy
corner folks are like, Trump's doing
this on purpose. You know, the
volatility in the market is helpful in
some way, but it does seem to be the
playbook. I'm calling this I don't mean
this in a derogatory way. Again, I don't
like the term taco because I think
that's trying to go Trump into or or
frame what he's doing as not thoughtful.
I think it is thoughtful. I think he
does shock and bore. He does something
shocking. He pins his negotiation to
that. Whether it's what's happening in
Iran, whether it's what's happening with
immigration or what happened with
tariffs, he starts with a bang and then
he falls back to a reasonable position
that the markets can digest. So, you
just have to take a 90-day view of
everything he's doing and then you'll be
fine. When he says, you know, we're
going to give people 150% tariff, just
cut it by 2/3 or make it reciprocal,
fine. When he says he's going to deport
20 million people, cut it to 500 to a
million, whatever Obama did, and that's
where it's going to wind up. And he says
we're going to smash Iran, it's going to
be like very strategic, and then he's
going to give them the path off. So he
he's actually playing a very interesting
perhaps dare I say sophisticated
approach this time which seems chaotic
but it might there might be a method to
the madness. Yeah. Well I think the
media has an incentive to spread this
ide they have an incentive to hype the
chaos basically. They're the ones who
are creating the panic and they bring on
all these fake networks who've got TDS
to basically hype this narrative. So my
point is just that when the media is
spreading this this narrative, that's a
great time to buy because it's an
opportunity for those of us who don't
have TDS. It's not even TDS, it's
ratings. I'll just tell you right there,
being a media executive, you know, for
most of my life, if you want to work the
left, you say Trump's out of control,
look at this chaos, he's a dictator,
yada yada, ratings go up. If you're Fox,
you take the other side, you get
ratings, it equals advertising. You
don't really have to think about it.
want to talk to independent media like
all in podcast Tucker people on the left
people on the right who are actually
having first principal discussions about
this I think it is TDS though I mean
there are some members no but like just
as we were taping there's just a whole
deluge of economic data that came out
the GDP print for Q1 came in at
minus.5%.
I mean, so how could anybody interpret
for Q1? So, how could anybody at the Fed
or in the media covering the Fed
not understand that, by the way, and we
were talking about this just like I said
that we're probably going to print like
a threehandle on GDP in Q2, we also
talked about the fact that we were
probably going to have a negative GDP
print in Q1. So, we've been knowing it
for months. We've basically been calling
it right. So why is there an inability
to just look at the data and just say
the obvious truthful thing? So I think I
think whether whether whatever you think
of Trump, it doesn't really matter.
Rates should not be where they are
today. They should be 50 to 100 basis
points lower. Period. It's categorical.
He'll do it in September. He's going to
do a 25 in September. It's obvious.
There's no logical explanation for it.
There is a
subjective explanation and that's
political.
I I think he just after the tariff stuff
he said let's just push it out two month
two two two months get some more data
and then we'll cut it in September.
What's the difference between a sepy
August cut or a September? It's probably
not going to be meaningful in the arc of
history. But if you're if you're against
the tariffs and you're buying into, you
know, Jim Kramer's doom narrative or
Larry Summer's doom narrative, that's
more of a reason to cut. If you believe
the doom narrative that he's not going
to relent, yes. But if he does relent
and he negotiates it, I think you would
say stay the course and see what
happens. Anyway, all of this is on the
margins. The truth is these companies
are very strong. Entrepreneurship is
strong and the debt's the issue. So we
we still got to address the debt. We'll
see if he does that in. But to Sha's
point, the the last year of the Biden
economy was very weak, especially the
last six months of the Biden economy,
such that Q1 was negative GDP growth.
So, President Trump came into office
inheriting a very weak economy. Since
then, he's done a bunch of things to
turn it around. Yeah. But there's
obviously there's no reason to have
interest rates at What are interest
rates at right now? It's five still at
5%. Let's pull up the poly market just
for real quick guide where he uh I think
the the market thinks 2550 bips is like
the 80%. I haven't looked at it in a
week. Here's September. What are we
seeing here?
59% 25 bips 8% 50 bips. So you put those
together, it's two3 chance he's going to
cut in September, obviously. And what
does October say? Yeah. So is there a
poly market on who replaces Powell,
Nick? Is there anything in there about
who replaces Powell? He's going to
announce it. I mean, I I think he'll
just announce it and he'll make Bessant.
People seem to like Bessant. He feels
like a steady hand. He feels like he's
got experience. It's obvious who's who
is the most likely new Fed chair or
something like that. I think it's best.
Here we go. Oh, there it is. Chris
Waller. Really? Huh? Best only 14%. I
think that's your sleeper right there.
But it's it's Listen, there's one, two,
three, four, five, six people with 14 to
22%. So, this is a Bess only at 14%.
Yeah, I agree. That seems low. Hasset's
at 18. I mean, I work with both Bess and
Hasset and I know them both well and
they both be great. They both would be
great, right? They both have a ton of
experience, a lot of time in the game,
which is what you Worsh has been in the
game for a long time. He really knows
how the markets work. He He I mean this
Yeah. Chop. Is this a case of or Sachs
is this a case of picking you you have a
bench. Do you want to move Bessant out
of where he's doing a good job? I think
I think Bessant's crushing at Treasury.
I would love to keep him in the job. So
yeah, I think that's the decision,
right? I think I think the thing is
elevating Waller has that's an
interesting set of implications. Worsh
is, you know, very consumate and capable
of doing the job. The question is, does
Trump believe he's MAGA or does Trump
believe he's more established
Republican? Sorry, there's another name
on the list that we forgot. You want
Musk or Trump? Oh, Sumat is in there.
Oh, okay. Let's see. Okay. Well, let's
get those numbers up. Those are rookie
numbers. You can make 99.8.
I think I think that I'm I'm part of a
cascade that happens if something else
happens. But you put $1,000 in and uh
you'll make three bucks. Yeah. All
right. Let's end on this uh AI training.
This is a super important story. we
talked about here. Anthropic received a
favorable ruling in an AI copyright
case. Bunch of caveats here. Federal
judge out of San Francisco ruled
Anthropic use of copyrighted books and
AI training was legal if if the company
had purchased or licensed the books
through legal means. However, the ruling
doesn't apply to more than 7 million
books that Enthropic allegedly
to put that in there obtained through
quote unquote pirated means. People
obviously have been training data off of
a lot of what's on the web and a lot of
that stuff might have not been
officially licensed. Author's guild is
going to appeal the decision uh which
came out of the district court in
Northern California. Interestingly, a
day after this ruling, Microsoft was
sued by a group of authors alleging it
used a collection of over 200,000
pirated books uh in its Megatron AI
model. Interestingly, on top of that, I
did a licensing deal. Harper's business
did a deal or Harper's with Microsoft
and I got paid 2500 bucks to license
Angel for their model. So, there are
also legal routes.
No, literally for the whole book. Uh,
and I did it I know it's crazy. No,
everybody got the same deal. They
licensed like I don't know 5,000 books
or something per word. Per word. Well, I
used to get $3 a word back in the day,
but actually for that book, what did I
get? got $25 a word, I guess, um, with a
million-dollar deal. So, Meta also
prevailed against a group of notable
authors, including Sarah Silverman. Now,
we know why he's so long-winded. He gets
paid by the word. Absolutely. Now, you
know, that's actually my Now, we know
why he never wants to cut anything. This
goes on and on and on. On and on and on.
Absolutely. That's why we're the number
one podcast in the world. Uh, you guys
can send me my flowers. You know, the
address of the ranch. Okay. So, there
was another one with Meta. And uh
although the judge ultimately sided with
Meta, he had a mixed ruling. Basically
said that copyright protected works
without permission is generally illegal.
But the plaint plaintiffs in that case
failed to present any compelling
arguments that there were actual market
harm. That's a key one. You have to have
uh some harm in these cases in order for
it to play. Ton of other cases still in
play. The big one is the New York Times
versus OpenAI and Getty Images versus
Stable uh Diffusion. We'll follow those
as they make their way through the
courts. But here you are, Sax, you are
the ZAR of AI. So I I don't know if
we're getting an official position here
or just your personal thoughts on this,
but what's the um interpretation of
these two early cases by bizarre data?
Well, I'll tell you my my point of view.
I don't know that I can speak for
everybody, but I'll give you my point of
view, which actually is the same point
of view I gave on this podcast a year or
two ago because we had this debate over
fair use and me and Freeberg were on one
side and you were on another side. Yes.
This judge in the anthropic case, I
mean, the the the reasoning that he gave
was almost identical to what Freeberg
and I were arguing Yeah. a year ago. And
the distinction he made is between input
and output. If an AI model outputs
some text that is basically a ripoff of
of someone else's uh copyright, then of
course it's it's guilty of copyright
violation. But in the inputs or
pre-training is something different. And
what AI models do in pre-training is
they take millions of text, millions of
documents, and they understand the
positional relationship of the words and
they translate that into um into math
into a vector space called positional
encoding. That is a transformation of
the underlying work. And in the same way
that a human can read a a body of works
and then come up with their own point of
view, that is basically what AI models
are doing. So if AI models violate
someone's copyright by outputting
something that's identical, then
obviously that's a violation. But if all
they're doing is transforming the work,
they're doing positional encoding and
then coming up with their own unique
work product. This judge said that that
is not a violation of copyright. I
completely agree with that. One other
point, one other distinction this judge
made that I think is very important is
the difference between pirating and
copyright. What the judge said is,
"Look, you have to buy the book if
you're going to basically do
pre-training on it. You can't rip it
off. That would be piracy, but that's
different than copyright." And so, I
agree with that, too. Now, just one
final point on this. How would you uh
Sax on that point? How would you propose
a large language model, take a million
books and put it in? Would they buy the
physical books, scan them in if you buy
the book? So what Anthropic did is they
created this large repository of books
and unfortunately some of them weren't
paid for they were pirated material and
so anthropic allegedly by the way
allegedly is in some hot water and then
I think there is some case that's going
to move forward about that but the judge
distinguished again between piracy and
copyright. So the point is what
anthropic should have done apparently is
buy each copy of the book that they put
in their repository. If they had done
that, scan them in, scan them in, they
wouldn't have had this piracy uh uh
claim against them. But again, that is
separate from copyright. Just one final
point on this is I think it's very
important that we end up with a sensible
fair use definition like the one that
judges come up with in the synthropic
case because otherwise we will lose the
AI race to China. The fact of the matter
is China's not going to care about
American copyright policy. they are
going to train on every scrap of data
that's available to them on the
internet. Uh apparently they use a
pirated book archive called libgen. And
so you know they're not going to abide
by copyright laws at all. And if we
don't allow our AI models to again have
a sensible fair use definition that
allows them to train but not violate an
output then we will lose to to Chinese
AI models because they'll have more
data. And the fact is that the more data
that you have, the better your AI model.
So I do think it's very important for
the US to consolidate around a fair use
definition that makes sense. I'm not
saying that this anthropic case will be
the final word. I think there will be
other cases that come up with other
definitions. There may be other judges
that disagree. Ultimately, I think this
is going to the Supreme Court. But where
we need to end up is with some sort of
fair use definition that makes sense.
Otherwise, we will lose AI race to
China. Your view Jal?
Yeah, obviously as a content creator,
uh, I'll take the other side of this.
There is a nuance between training and
there is a nuance between the output.
Uh, I like to look at this as an
opportunity. YouTube really did a great
job with their content ID system of
navigating this. Google has the most
experience here uh, with Google images
and Google News. The one box where you
get a little snippet uh, up top and the
output is where this is really going to
favor the content holders because these
will be competitive products in the
marketplace. The need to buy a New York
Times subscription is no longer
necessary. You can go onto a language
model and ask them to give you wire
cutter as one example I like to cite.
What are their best picks for these uh
you know air conditioners or or
microphones for podcasting? And they
will give it to you. And when they
started doing that, that was my main
reason to subscribe to the New York
Times. And I no longer subscribe to it.
I subscribe to Open Eye because I can
get the same information there. These
cases will be very easy to win. Uh and
so I'm going to explain two things. is
one how you can win this case as a
content company and then two I'm going
to give uh how the large language models
can importantly win the AI race and
actually not destroy the business on
which they are built on. These language
models have nothing without the content
creators and the authors of these books
of which I am one. They need us and so
they should want to pay us. They should
want us to be compensated because that
will keep us more competitive than
China, which will just steal it one
time. So, here's how you win if you're a
publisher. Uh, all you have to do is
Disney, which is suing um MidJourney
right now for obvious copyright
violations on the output in my
interpretation. All you have to do is do
a a Marvel Me, make yourself into a
Marvel character, Disney me, or choose
your own adventure Star Wars, and allow
consumers to pay for that product. And
any author right now that pops up a
website that says subscribe to uh the
angel book and ask questions of it, $10
for life, a dollar per year, whatever it
is, they will be able to prove damages
very easily and they will be able to
prove that these language models are
competitive. When they do that, then all
of the output will need to uh be
scrubbed or contained in some way. You
can see this today if you ask Chat GPT
which is you know the main target since
they're making $10 billion a year off of
in many ways uh content creators work
that's why they're the big target
because they have the most money uh they
will not let you make certain images
copyrighted images specifically the
Disney ones go ahead and try go try to
make a Darth Vader image and they will
stop you so they know they're doing it
wrong and they've already put the
controls in place you need to show that
this is your opportunity as a content
creator and now to my second point Zach
which is the very easy. So that's how
you can prove your case and win hands
down versus all language models. Put a
competitive product in the market, you
will win. Then the second piece that'll
make this tenable is you know Chetchip
is making $10 billion a year according
to reports. They should give 30% of
their revenue a small amount the
minority of their revenue to the top
10,000 newspapers, publications,
podcasts, books, etc. And they should do
that programmatically. And then they
should hope that those companies double
their revenue and increase their
investment. And then Chat GPT and the
New York Times should do a deal and I
predict they will do this or with
another language model that's smart
enough to do it where when you go to
Chat GPT and you do a search from the
New York Times, you say, "What does the
New York Times say about Iran or what do
they say about you know uh the wire
cutters say about cameras?" It should
say authenticate with your New York
Times subscription to have access to
this. And on the New York Times website,
they should say authenticate with chat
GPT. This would allow them to have a
competitive advantage versus Anthropic
and you know Apples and whoevers and
this will become a massive competitive
advantage for the language models just
like cable channels might or Hulu might
feature Disney Plus or you know FX or or
whatever stations or content it is.
Whoever does this first on the other
side will make a tremendous amount of
money because they will have access to
all that data and the output. So you can
make your kids a t-shirt or a birthday
invitation, you know, using the Star
Wars characters. That's the easy way for
us to win as Americans by respecting
content creators and paying the money so
they can reinvest. The amount of money
we're talking about here is dimminimous
for the tech industry. These companies
are going to be worth 30% of revenue and
the company's losing tons of money.
Yeah, that's their problem. That's not
there's no legal basis for that such a
specific proposal. There's only basis
for well I mean there is the music
industry if you want to play music in
your restaurant you have to pay. If you
want to cover somebody's song you got to
pay. If you want to perform it you have
to pay. So there is tons of precedent
for it. If you want to play a Disney
film at your kid's birthday party yeah
you can get away with it. But if you do
it in people you're going to guarantee
that Chinese models like Deep Seek are
better than American models cuz they're
not going to go through any of that. So
that's your reason of why people because
they're just going to train on No, not
steal. I don't think it's stealing the
output. I'm talking about specifically
the output stealing or not. You can't
cop No, no, no. You can't copy the
output. I fully agree there. And that is
what the Disney case is about. No, I'm
talking about free training. I'm talking
about the latter. So, let's talk about
the latter here. I'm talking
specifically on the output. No one
disagrees on output. Okay. So, that's
the licensing deal I'm talking about.
Don't you think it would be worth it to
give Disney $und00 million a year to
have access to all that? You and I have
different definitions of output. Okay. I
think it's reasonable to pay Disney for
pre-training, and I think that they do.
I told you though this like we did a
licensing deal with open AAI we meaning
you know beast they paid us and they're
using it for pre-training it's quite
reasonable is it the right price we have
no idea but we did it so that we could
be a part of the conversation and shape
how these deals get done for content
creators but Sax is right like if you
think about like what is the ultimate
output the output if you look at how a
transformer behaves it's it's almost
it's impossible simple to say that it's
copying the input just not how it works.
And so I I don't get turned into math
what gets recorded is vector math on the
relationship between the words.
This is all a very and then somehow when
you feed that into a neural net with
billions and billions of documents, it
somehow has an understanding and
produces new content and that new
content is not a copyright violation. So
I just think that like copyright's the
wrong way to look at this. This is a new
technology. is transformational. And
then finally, we have the national
security concern. All right, so this is
a topic we will monitor. Thanks again
for listening to the number one podcast
in the world. If you want to hang out
with the besties and hear more prophetic
interviews and discussions, go to the
All-In Summit now in its fourth year,
September 7th to 9th in Los Angeles
every year. We try to oneup the last
year and we will do it again this year.
Apply for tickets. allin.com/summit
or ballin.com/yattada
yada yada.
See you next time, besties. Love you. I
love you. I got to go. Bye.
We'll let your winners ride.
Rainman David
and we open sourced it to the fans and
they've just gone crazy with it. Love
you. Queen of
yours.
[Music]
Besties are gone.
That is my dog taking your driveways.
Oh man, my appetiter will meet. We
should all just get a room and just have
one big huge orgy cuz they're all just
like this like sexual tension and they
just need to release somehow.
Your feet.
We need to get merch.
[Music]
I'm going all in.