# Podcast Transcript
# Show: All-In with Chamath, Jason, Sacks & Friedberg
# Episode: Miami Mayor Francis Suarez: The Recipe for Creating America's Happiest City | All-In Live from Miami
# YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jD2pZEUvQq4
# Downloaded: 2025-07-19 20:58:50

43rd mayor of Miami. Served two terms
since 2017 and his tenure is going to
end in September because he's term
limited. Although I hear these days
that's flexible. Please welcome Francis
Suarez. We're ranked the happiest city
in America, the healthiest city in
America. The formula for success is
simple. Keep taxes low. Keep people
safe. Lean into innovation.
How are things going in Miami?
Obviously, you know, we talked to you a
couple years ago when we had our first
all-in summit here and uh you had a
nonsense approach that you thought was
going to work with the homeless
challenges that we're seeing. I think
candidly we discussed a large portion of
the homeless problem in these major
cities is an addiction problem and you
know giving a junkie a home doesn't
exactly get them off the street. It just
doesn't work. And you've you were one of
the first people to say that plainly.
How are you dealing with it? Has it
gotten worse? Is it an intractable
problem? Yeah. Take us through it. So,
in homeless specifically, we are at an
11-year low. Uh we did our census, we do
two census a year. We do one in uh
January, one in in the summer. And our
our January census had us at an 11-year
low. We had 546 homeless, unsheltered
homeless in the entire city of Miami. Um
we have a couple thousand sheltered. And
uh I actually raised money on an annual
basis uh as a mayor's ball. I I did my
mayor's ball last year and this year
I'll be doing it in May 31st to end
homeless. We want to be the first major
American city to have zero homeless and
we think we can get there. We call it
functional
zero and and and and frankly the the
strategy is not that complicated. You
know, obviously there's a macroeconomic
strategy. We have the lowest
unemployment in America. We have the
highest median wage growth in America.
We I lower taxes to the lowest level in
history. And we've seen 140% growth in 9
years. So, the economy is robust. We
were ranked the happiest city in
America, the healthiest city in America.
Frankly, if you're happy, you're healthy
and you're working, you're probably not
homeless. And then, of course, we've
done innovative things in the homeless
space. We've worked with um charitable
organizations that uh help people
reunify families if they live in other
parts of the country. And also, we rent
homes so that we can get around the
building process and give all the same
wraparound services, but we we sort of
hack through that process. Those 500
individuals um who are categorized as
homeless. Yeah. How many of them are
suffering from mental illness andor
self-medicating slashaddicted to drugs?
A very high percentage. Um I would say
80% plus, right? And that's sort of
anecdotal. Um but when I and I've been
out to the streets, I'll I'll I'll be
out there before my my homeless ball now
on May 31st. I'm actually going to spend
a night out on the street. Um and when
you talk to them, when you engage in
them, a vast majority of them are
unfortunately. Okay, so let me double
click on that. this problem wasn't as
acute before the super drugs meth like
the the serious meth um well the really
serious ones they're making now and
fentinyl right these this combination
seems to be you know we had people
addicted to heroin like Miles Davis and
like Philip Seymour Hoffman who produced
incredible art and were addicts for 30
years and they and they went in and out
of it but this drug is pernicious
different deadly super addicting how
much of the problem are those two drugs
specifically if you double clicked on
it. A big part of the problem heroin or
opioids. He's asking for a friend by the
way. Just not I'm asking if you have a
hookup. Clearly. No, but I'm I'm being
deadly serious because we we had these
homeless individuals in New York, you
know, back in the day in the 70s ' 80s.
They were kind of like um hobos and
vagabons, not seriously addicted, you
know, suffering where they're folding
over and curled up in a ball from
fentinel. Well, well, to your point, I
mean, meth and and and uh the opioids
are incredibly addictive and they're
very hard to to to beat, right? I mean,
even people who are are wealthy and get
addicted to these drugs have a very hard
time um the recidivism rate is very high
and so uh you know, you just had Antonio
on here a minute ago and he was talking
about, you know, immigration and the
border and one of the big problems with
the border is the tens of thousands of
people that die annually because of
fentinel that gets imported through
China and through our border. And so uh
there's a tie-in, right, between federal
policy and and local policy. But for us,
um again, uh in 1980 during the the
cocaine era, right, different drug, uh
we had 220 homicides. So you had drugs
hurting people, but you had the business
of drugs very much hurting people,
right? Last So we started recording
homicides in 1946 in Miami. 1946, we had
32 homicides. From 1946 to today, the
lowest number we ever had was 24. Last
year we had 27. Wow. Okay. We had 220 in
1980. This year we're trending below the
24. So we may this may be the safest
year in the history recorded history of
Miami. Can you connect those dots there?
Like I think I think when people think
about social policy, everybody confuses
the correlation and causation. Yeah. But
you've been in the seat now for a long
time. Yeah. So you've seen what hasn't
worked, what has worked, what maybe has
been correlated, but if you had to sort
of like lay out the road map for other
cities, but frankly for other states,
the rest of the country, what's the road
map? The Francis Suarez road map. The
formula for success is simple. Keep
taxes low, keep people safe, lean into
innovation,
right? Can we just double click into
those? Of course. I can double click on
each one of them. Let's take the other
side of these things just to help the
conversation because I believe in them
but let's try to steal man the other
side. Sure. Keep taxes low. What people
say if you look at California and if you
look at New York what they would say is
we have a duty to invest in the social
services and the infrastructure to
support everybody that isn't necessarily
as well or didn't get the right side of
luck and we need to raise taxes in order
to generate the revenues to fund that.
My my counterargument would be
government is not a good purveyor of
those services. It's not an efficient
purveyor of those services. So, so ju
just to double click, right? I lowered
taxes to the lowest level in history and
I and I took the city in 2009 as a
councilman in out of bankruptcy. So, I
got it in bankruptcy. We decided this is
sort of the Doge before Doge. We decided
not to raise taxes. We cut cost. We we
cut, you know, we didn't we didn't let
anyone go, but we had tiered salary
cuts, pension reform, and we balanced
our budget, and we had 10 years of
prosperity. And that prosperity led to a
tripling of the size of our government.
So we went from a $500 million
government to a billion half dollar
government while lowering taxes. So we
we grew 200%. Right? So the the the
resources that we had to dedicate to
these actually went up even though taxes
went down. And then uh you know uh when
you have a place where there's
prosperity and where people are
investing and where people are employed,
they're obviously not there's not as
many social problems. So they're not out
there killing people. um they're not out
out there hurting people. So the 1980s
we had you know we were one of the mur
murder capitals of America and we're now
one of the safest big cities in America.
And then I think you know the the how
can I help moment that you guys are all
familiar with was this juxtiposition
with what American cities were doing
right famously New York competes for and
wins the Amazon HQ2 prize right and then
rejects it. Rejects it. Yeah. And and
and also famously in California, you had
a I guess it was a legislator that said,
"F Elon Musk." Yeah. Elena Gonzalez.
Exactly. And she and he replied,
"Message received." And he left. And
then she went to run a union, right? Is
that where she ended up? Yeah. I think
she went to work for a union. She's the
CEO of one of the big unions now. But
the issue is what I tell people is look,
it's it's bad enough to kick out a
trillion dollar company from your city
or the richest person arguably in the
world from your city. But think about
the the signal. The signal to me is much
much greater, right? The signal is if
you want to bring another headquarters
or if you want to be another company, we
just got FC Barcelona two days ago. We
announced that FC Barcelona moved their
headquarters from New York to Miami,
right? Every single day um we announced,
you know, 900 million dollars of loans
in two projects in the last two days in
two buildings, you know, our stadium,
our Inter Miami stadium. We have the
FIFA World Cup headquarters for 2026 in
the in the world, right? So, I mean,
this formula for success, it seems
simple, other cities are getting it
wrong completely backwards, right? their
taxes are high, it's not safe, and
they're not leaning into they're
rejecting innovation. Are there are
there downsides to growing this fast?
Like are there things that have to keep
up that are harder to change like
building code, housing density, you
know, those sort of cost of living
things like have those have you guys
been able to drive reform there or is
that is that not where you wanted to be?
So Ken Griffin recently was interviewed
in a fireside chat like this and said,
"I'd rather have the problems of success
than the problems of failure." And so
there's no doubt that there are problems
that stem from success, right? And
housing prices, you had a tremendous
amount of inflation in the last
administration and you you you sort of
couple that with hyper demand here in
Miami and you get hyperinflation, right?
So housing costs have certainly gone up
significantly. And we do everything we
can to leverage public dollars and
public assets like land to try to build
projects at a 15 to1 or 20 to1 leverage
rate. So for $100 million invested,
we'll get $2 billion worth of projects.
Um, there's a 5 million h, you know, 5
million housing shortage across the
country and Miami has its fair share
just like any any other major city.
Traffic, I know none of you guys have
experienced any bad traffic this last
few days, right? I was in the car two
two hours and 40 minutes going over to
that. I'm not going to I'm not going to
tell you how far along we are with the
Boring Company on trying to find
underground boring systems or with some
of the EV toe companies that we're
working with. But I do think that
transportation generally has to sort of
turn the page from, you know, last
generation's archaic um solutions to
next. How did you get that train that
what do you call it? The sunshine line
or something. Bright line. Yeah. The
Bright Line. Yeah. How did you get that
done so quick? And everybody says it's
the greatest thing ever. That's a
private sector project uh that was done
by company. Um we had a piece of it
which was we did a piece from with Tri
Rail to bring it into the station. And
when we did that piece, we made it free
for inner city residents to be able to
use. So it was something that I was very
proud of was part of my legacy. So a
private company built it, correct? You
gave them the right of way. They bought
the right of way. So it was totally
private. So look, we have microobility
options that are private like scooters.
So all you did was just not get in the
way. Exactly. Shocking. By the way, what
an idea. Let me Yeah. Let me let me ask
you
h how how can It's like the hypocratic
oath. Do no harm. Do no harm. How can
mayors address they they come into
office with a reform motivation and
they're elected on, hey, we've got to we
don't have what what Miami has. We got
to fix this. We got to get get the city
working again. We got to attract
business. We got to track growth. And
they inherit this regulatory morass,
this massive infrastructure. Like San
Francisco recently, I I I got all caught
up in the fact that you can't put these
phone booths in your office. You know, a
lot of startups, I don't know if any of
you guys have these, these these phone
booths, you got to have someone go in
and make a call. You put the phone booth
in. And all my startups, all the
companies I've been involved in, you
can't put one in San Francisco. So, you
you put these phone booths in and then
you can go in and make calls. So, when
everyone's in an open desk
configuration, but you got to do a
private call, you hop them in. Everyone
loads up their offices with these phone
booths. In San Francisco, they're
illegal. Turns out that you need to run
you and there's a piece of paper, which
I was actually going to tweet because
it's insane. It's like three pages long.
All the things you need to know about
the phone booths that you want to put in
your office. You got to get an architect
review, an engineering review, a design
review. You got to get sign off from the
engineer. You got to submit the
permitting fees. It gets reviewed by the
city inspector's office. You got to
design fire sprinklers that have to go
into the phone booth. That's nuts. In
case there's a fire in the phone booth,
someone needs to put out the fire in the
That's hilarious. So, I was talking I
was talking to some folks about like
what are you going to do about this? But
the mayor's kind of like, I don't know
if there's enough action that I can take
because it's it's it's in law that
there's all this kind of regulatory
stuff. How do you advise mayors that are
stuck with this sort of an environment?
And this is not just San Francisco.
There's a lot of big cities in this
country that have books and books of
this stuff. And we can talk about
philosophically why this has happened,
sociologically why this has happened.
Books and books of this stuff where the
city can't get out of the way. What do
the mayors do? when you guys get
together like is there any advice or are
we stuck like what's the what's the
solution? We're not stuck. I I I think
it it's cultural right at some level you
have to inculcate a culture where you
empower your employees to innovate and
and to to uh you know deconlict. I think
uh when people come to me with a problem
I say look first first issue is if
there's something that's blocking it
that doesn't make any sense why don't we
just change it? We're legislators.
That's what we do. We legislate so we
can fix it. uh maybe it happened maybe
it made sense 20 years ago maybe it made
sense 50 years ago doesn't make sense
today let's just change it I think
regulation is the is the other side of
the coin from innovation right so
regulation is telling you what you often
times what you can't do or or how to do
something innovation is to protect loss
it's sort of a first principles thinking
we're going to we want to do this right
we we want to make this work and I think
uh I always not always but I regularly
fall on the side of innovation and I
think you you you as a public official
frankly who's elected by the people
really are the one that has to push the
bureaucrats, the bureaucrat class,
right? The bureaucrat class, they get
very accustomed to saying no. They're
riskaverse. Um, you know, they're not
incentivized often times, right? There's
no incentive structure that says, "Hey,
if you innovate, you're going to get X
or Y or Z." And then I think the third
piece of it is artificial intelligence.
I really feel that there's a
breakthrough that's going to come and
it's not just in transportation. We're
talking about EV tools and and
underground boring and all that, but I
think in
in zoning codes and and all that, it's
it's going to be computer to computer,
right? So the codes are all
straightforward, right? We have the same
code for 15 years, right? Probably 97 or
8% of all known decisions have already
been made under this code, right? So all
they have to do is be replicated going
forward, right? Unless the code changes
and then you just change the coding and
you make the decisions all over again.
So it's not that complicated. You should
be able to submit something. The
computer should be able to spit it out
immediately. If it needs changes, it
should tell you what the changes are. A
computer could look at that, make the
changes, and spit it back in. Right? And
if you were to do that, you know, it
takes to get a permit on a on a home in
most places in America or on a building
in most places in America, you know, 6
months, 9 months, a year, a year and a
half. I mean, it's insane. It should be
done instantly. And it could literally
be done instantly with a technology that
we already have available to us today.
Hundred billion dollar business, by the
way, in case anybody's a great idea.
It's a killer idea. I think some
startups have worked on it too. Um I
know multiple that are working. Yeah,
they work on the other side of it.
Building on Freeberg's point, the two
best proposals I heard about regulations
and I'm curious if you could steal me on
them or you know just how practical you
think they are. Putting um a time limit
on regulations. So if you fought for
some regulations around these phone
boots back when foam boots, you know,
Superman changed his costume in them
from the 60s and 70s, like back from
that era, maybe it lasts for 20 years
and then it expires or you want to add
two regulations to office space
regulations. You got to take one off the
books, you know, and and those were the
two proposals I've heard. Some way of
timing these out or um if you want to
add, you got to take you got to find
something to take off. Are either of
those practical? I kind of like the
first one better than the second one
because the second one I mean this sort
of one for one I mean there's got to be
a reason to do one or the other. Right.
Okay. I I like the first one better. Um
actually what we normally do in
government is the opposite. What we do
is we do what we call pilots, right? So
you'll do something that goes away very
quickly, right? In other words, you
imple implement a piece of legislation
say, "Oh, we're going to do it for a
year. Let's test it out." Right? And
it's a pilot and then it goes away. Um,
I I like what you're saying in terms of,
you know, a big part of regulatory
culture can probably be phased out over
a 15 20 year period as being
anacronistic, right? It just doesn't a
year get reviewed and you you're the
government's responsible for reviewing
5% a year for 20 years and they reertify
it or right and and then you have the
ability to reimplement it if you think
it makes sense. But I think what happens
is you go back down to zero. you were
asking Antonio and I was I was listening
to the conversation because we did we
did it like I said we had to cut our
budget by 20% in one year and uh and
part of the problem is budgeting is like
layering right it all layers on top of
each other same as regulation it layers
on top of each other so if you were to
be able to strip it down in a mechanical
way right in an instantaneous way as
opposed to having to fight the the the
structures in our case we were very
lucky there was a state statutory
vehicle that allowed us to implement the
cuts otherwise we'd have to bargain for
them in a in a union process and
obviously no one would ever bargain to
cut their salaries. There would no never
bargain to cut. It would nothing would
have happened. We would have come we
would have been bankrupt and then a
court would have taken us over. We would
have looked like a joke and instead we
we cut costs and we and we survived and
we thrived right going forward. And by
the way, my employees now love me. They
were not happy the first couple years
when we did it. But now they they they
um I mean I don't even have to go to a
union interview when I when I run for
office. They just support me right away.
Do you want to be governor? I don't
think it's quite that simple. I want to
dunk. I want to dunk. Yeah, I want to be
able to dunk, too. Uh, look, I think
that I'm a Republican for those of you
who don't know, and uh, you know, the
president's already weighed in the
Republican primary. I respect the
president's uh, perspective. I have a
good relationship with Congressman
Donald's. So, I I think politics is very
circumstantial. Um, we've talked about
that a lot in the past. So, you know,
things sometimes conspire in your in
your favor. Sometimes sometimes things
don't, right? And I do think it is
circumstantial. So, I think you have to
weigh the circumstances. You know, I ran
for president because I had a had a
thesis. The thesis was urban voters,
Hispanics, and young voters, if they
went Republican, would favor the
Republican candidate or Republican
candidate win. And it they did. It just
wasn't me, right? It was a different
candidate. But, you know, the president
did a great job on podcasts, right?
Going on all these podcasts that, you
know, the vice president didn't do. Um,
and he got young voters and he got urban
voters. Uh, look, a Republican's never
going to win Philadelphia, right? Trump
lost Philadelphia to Biden by 85%. But
he lost Philadelphia to Kamla by 75%.
And and that delta, the 75, 85, that 10%
delta gave him Pennsylvania. Yeah,
that's the election, which was such a
crucial state, right? Like arguably the
the winning state. So you you know,
Republicans are never going to
necessarily win urban votes or the urban
population centers throughout America.
But you're also seeing and and I think
it's important to note you're seeing
Democratic mayors lose across America.
London Breed lost in San Francisco.
Yeah. Tashara Jones lost in St. Louis.
The mayor of of Chicago, Lori Lightoot
lost. On that point, you were the or
still are the head of No, I was I was a
president US Conference of Yeah. for a
year and a half. Okay. If if if we had
to ask you, you can't live in Miami.
Yeah. You met all those mayors. Who
where are two places that you think are
actually well-run that aspire, you know,
to do something great and have their
[ __ ] together?
Cities. Take your time. I don't jump to
an answer. I I'll say this. I I'll tell
you a mayor that I like. How about that?
Okay. Justin Bib. Justin Bib is a mayor
of Cleveland. We got a couple Cleveland
people here apparently. There we go.
Justin is a good friend. Uh I have a lot
of friends that are mayors. I'm a mayor.
You know, I love all my mayors because I
was a president of that institution. But
I think Justin is a young, dynamic guy
who's smart, not super partisan, cares
tremendously about his city, and and we
talk a lot about it because obviously
Miami and Cleveland are a little
different, right? On the margins, that's
fair. Uh and and we joke about it. He
says, you know, I wish I had the kind of
problems you have. To go back to sort of
the Ken Griffin quote, you know, they
they don't struggle with affordable
housing. They got plenty of affordable
housing cuz people don't necessarily
want to live there. Um
uh sorry Jay sorry Jay I love you bro.
Uh but but it's true right? It's kind of
true. So so he's dealing with economic
uh development. He's dealing with he
wants to he wants to be the Miami of
Ohio in terms of getting investment
getting the tech community there getting
people special people to move into his
community and believe in his vision. And
uh I think look company building is hard
as you guys know you guys have built
some incredible companies. Ecosystem
building is even harder, right? It's
it's it's a thousandx harder than
building a big company. I mean,
companies take years into decades and
ecosystems take decades into centuries.
Yeah. It's too different. Yeah. Is there
something
that inside of the next gubernatorial
campaign, let's say you don't run for
governor, that's a high impact job at
the state level? Not really. I get to
practice and I have a private sector
life. Uh I have a 11-year-old and a
seven-year-old. So, I mean, if the
president called me and said, you know,
I want you to be the US ambassador to,
you know, a country that I have a
passion to help, you know, in terms of
the United States, in terms of their
relationship and world peace and things
of that nature. Um, which I think
are high ROIs for for the time
investment and the financial sacrifice
that you have to make. I would strongly
consider it. But other than that, I
mean, I'm I live a very blessed life,
you know. I I I'm the mayor of the best
city on the planet, you know. Yeah.
And I have incredible, incredible,
incredible bosses. These are my bosses.
I have the best bosses in the world.
Yeah. And they're constantly encouraging
me. They're constantly cheering me on.
And and and I live and breathe for them.
I wake up early in the morning. I go to
bed late. And I carry their problems,
their hopes, and their dreams in my
soul. All right. Give it up for Francis
Suarez, your mayor.
Thank you to our friend Francis Suarez,
the mayor of Miami, for joining us on
stage at our F1 event. And thanks to
you, the audience for tuning in. Give us
a like, a thumbs up, a subscribe, write
a review, whatever you're into. Maybe
send it to a friend if you want to come
to our next event. It's the All-In
Summit in Los Angeles. Fourth year for
All-In Summit. Go to
allin.com/events to apply. A very
special thanks to our new partner, OKX,
the new money app. OKX was the sponsor
of the McLaren F1 team which won the
race in Miami. Thanks to Haidider and
his team, an amazing partner and an
amazing team. We really enjoyed spending
time with you. And OKX launched their
new crypto exchange here in the US. If
you love All-In, go check them out. And
a special thanks to our friends at
Circle. They're the team behind USDC.
Yes, your favorite stable coin in the
world. USDC is a fully backed digital
dollar redeemable one for one for USD.
It's built for speed, safety, and scale.
They just announced the Circle Payments
Network. This is enterprisegrade
infrastructure that bridges the gap
between the digital economy and outdated
financial reality. Go check out USDC for
all your stable coin needs. And special
thanks to my friends, including Shane
over at Poly Market, Google Cloud,
Salana, and BVNK. We couldn't have done
it without y'all. Thank you so much.
Let your winners ride.
[Music]
We open sourced it to the fans and
they've just gone crazy with it. Queen
[Music]
of besties are gone.
That is my dog taking it on a share
driveway.
Oh man, my habitasher will meet up at We
should all just get a room and just have
one big huge orgy cuz they're all just
It's like this like sexual tension that
we just need to release somehow.
[Music]
We need to get mercy.
[Music]
I'm going all in.