# Podcast Transcript
# Show: All-In with Chamath, Jason, Sacks & Friedberg
# Episode: Tony Robbins | All-In Live from Miami
# YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FvHcuyYc718
# Downloaded: 2025-07-19 20:58:30

Our next guest needs no introduction.
Tony Robbins. You have to figure it out.
Like I always say, if you want to take
the island, you burn the boats. I got a
chance to work with the president of the
United States. Uh Clinton, and he calls
me one day, true story, and says, "Tony,
they're going to impeach me in the
morning." How many of you ever achieved
a goal you worked your guts out for and
then achieved it and went, "Is this all
there is?" Horrific. Horrible.
It's great to uh meet you. Thank you.
You're bigger in person. You're a big
man. Compared to what? A normal human.
Okay. They're large. They're like see
your hands. Yeah. There you go. There
you go. It's like you're a big guy. Um
you're glad he just had his hand.
It could have got really interesting.
You're true. True. I mean, maybe not if
he was in the cold plunge. You never
know. Okay, enough.
When I told people you were coming Yes.
I got like a range of responses and your
poor assistant chief of staff is in a
total panic about all the questions I'm
going to ask you. I don't care. Yes, I
know you don't care. But I got the range
of the infomercial guy. He has had a
profound impact on my life from very
significant friends of mine who we know
in common who have been to your seminars
to he's kind of a guru self-help. It's
all kind of like snake oil.
I want to know where this all started
because my perception of you was the
late night when I was growing up in the
80s, the infomercials. And then I looked
into it and I started looking into the
self-help space. You actually were
inspired by a self-help guru who you
went to work for in the I think the late
'7s. Yeah. Jim Ran. Yeah. Jim Ran. And
um you have been on this for a while and
a lot of the techniques that you studied
are very real there. These are real
techniques in psychology and when I
looked at them and I was looking at the
history of it, you know, you look at
Ralph Waldo, Emerson, uh self-reliance,
uh Freud,
Young, uh NLP, natural uh neural
linguistic programming, and even Elron
Hubard who took it in a different
direction. A lot of these self-help
things. Are you getting to a question? I
am. I am. He wants to show you that he
spent two hours on Wikipedia before we
started. I went down the rabbit hole.
Wikipedia. Who is Tony Robbins and why
did you get addicted to all this
self-help stuff and then it's kind of
been packaged in a couple different ways
in your life. So I'm curious this sort
of arc of how you got into this and then
what you do for people now because my
friend Mark Pinkis and then uh we have
Beni off friend of the show my friend
Kevin Rose these guys and then civilians
I one of my wife's friends goes and runs
over coals with you in Hawaii and she
she's a makeup artist and she loves it
and she can't shut up about it. So tell
me how you got into self-help, how you
packaged it, and why you decided to be a
coach and do these seminars instead of
starting a a cult or religion.
I got unpack that. Yes, please. Well,
people know me at different stages. I
was on television every 30 minutes, 24
hours a day for about 12 years during
infomercial days. And I hated
infomercials, but there was no real
vehicle, right, you could get out to
mass number of people other than writing
a book. And most people don't read. So,
but it started for me. I grew up in a
pretty tough environment. I was born in
downtown LA. I had four different
fathers. I had a very powerful mom who I
love dearly. I've since passed. Um,
beautiful soul. I created a lot of my
success to her. But also, when she drank
alcohol and took prescription drugs, she
was a different person, very violent. I
have a younger brother, younger sister.
So, I really became a practical
psychologist in my youth, learning how
to manage her emotions and her states
and how to really get things done. And
um I think probably the thing that
changed my life the most though was when
I was 11 years old, my fourth father,
and he got fired from his job. And it
was Thanksgiving. We had no money and no
food. When I say no food, we had
crackers and peanut butter, but you
know, not a Thanksgiving dinner, which
kind of depressing. And my parents were
fighting and, you know, saying things
you can never take back. And I was
trying to make my brother and sister not
hear it. And my life was changed cuz
someone came to the door. I opened a big
guy, two bags of groceries in his hand
and an un a frozen turkey uncooked in a
pan on the ground. He'd obviously
carried and sat down. He said, "Is your
father here?" And I was like, "Just one
moment." And I thought it was going to
be the most joyous moment, but my father
was angry because he felt humiliated. He
looked at it as charity and said, "We
don't accept that." And long story
short, the man said, "I'm the delivery
guy." And my dad had to take the food.
And that day changed my life because my
father left shortly thereafter. And I
really loved him. He's the one who
adopted me and uh I carry his name. But
it also I our life is determined, I
think, by the meanings we give to
things. You know, is this the end or the
beginning? Is this person dissing me?
Are they coaching me? Are they loving on
me? Whatever you decide controls your
life. And I was fortunate enough at that
point that I came up with a different
meaning. We grew up in an environment I
thought was a wealthy community. It was
very low middle class to say the least.
And we were on the other side of the
railroad tracks. And it looked like
nobody cared and nobody, my father kept
saying no one cares about anybody else.
But this was new evidence for me. It was
like if a stranger who doesn't even want
credit is delivering my family
Thanksgiving dinner, then strangers do
care and I need to care about strangers.
And so I promised myself that at 11
years old that someday I'd do this back
and feed at least two families. And then
you know I grew up and I started
studying patterns. I started seeing that
everything is a pattern. You know all of
you know as if you're an investor, if
you're a great CEO, uh if you're a great
dancer, musician, it's really because
you recognize patterns. Things are no
longer chaos for you. You see what's
going on. So you have the power of
anticipation. And then the second skill
I think I try to teach this to my kids
and grandkids. I have five kids and five
grandkids. I have a 50-year-old daughter
and thanks to co a four-year-old
daughter and uh and I'm saying what do I
need them to know? The world is changing
so fast. They have to be able to
recognize patterns. Step two, utilize
them. That's where the power is. And if
you do it long enough, you play someone
else's music long enough, you know, some
of you starts to come through and you
start to be a creator of patterns.
That's when you become masterful. Those
are the people we know in investing. You
know their names or in business or
anything else. And so once I learned
that, I realized there's nothing wrong
with people. We just get caught up in
patterns and we do them so long we think
they're us. And it's hard to change you.
Easy to change a pattern. And I got
really good at it. And so I changed my
body. I changed my finances. People
started coming to me. And then gradually
it became my full-time focus. And I
began to have people calling me as I
started producing results. And I'd get
these athletes that would call like
Serena Williams. And and she's melting
down and she can't get on the court cuz
her sister just died. And she's lost
recently and she's, you know, she's got
she's gunshy. And I got to right now
turn her around and there's no net. So
fortunately, I've been able to do that
over and over again. And it built my
career and brought me to a lot of sports
teams and now I own some of those sports
teams, pieces of them. And um and but
then I also started looking, okay, I
started working with people that are
depressed and suicidal and knock on
wood. I don't know. Did any of you see
Tony Robbins? I'm not your guru on
Netflix. Anybody here? So if you haven't
seen it, you can see Thank you. You see
the work. But we follow up 10 years
later and you see the people are still
in great shape because we're rewiring
the way the brain works. It's not a
bunch of pump up. I do use energy
because without energy, nothing changes.
But you can't just have energy. you need
strategy. And so as I did that, you
know, I give you a perfect example. I'm
31 years old and career starting to
sore. And then I I got a chance to work
with the president of the United States,
uh, Clinton, and he calls me one day,
true story, and says, "Tony, they're
going to impeach me in the morning. What
should I do?"
And I'm 31 years old, and the
president's asked me, I said, "Could you
call me sooner?" You know, this is like
tomorrow morning. But because there's no
net, my brain figured it out. You have
to figure it out. It's like I always
say, if you want to take the island, you
burn the boats. And then I got good at
Sorry, Tony. What What did you tell him?
Pardon me. What did you tell him? I
can't tell you that. Okay.
That's that's a private thing I'll tell
if you want to know. I don't share
unless somebody shares. But what I will
tell you is I got good at studying
businesses and became an entrepreneur.
And so now I have 114 companies in ma
massively different industries, but we
do about $9 billion a little bit more in
revenue. And I love the diversity. So I
get to work with athletes. I get the
team you formerly have ownership in.
have a little piece of Peter Gerber is
one of my dearest friends as you
probably know and so I've gotten to work
with you know some of the greatest
athletes in the world some of the
greatest musicians some of the greatest
entertainers and the greatest
entrepreneurs and I don't go there just
to to teach them I go to learn can I ask
you a societal question for a second
okay so you've been
in some ways diagnosing what ails people
for let's say 40 years now yes
every society has its own pothole and
maybe you know teenag teenagers and
young people today suffer from a very
different thing that maybe Jason, myself
and Freeberg did at our ages. Can you
diagnose
the level of happiness and sadness and
satisfaction, dissatisfaction that this
current young generation has relative to
other younger generations and where it's
different and where it's the same? I
don't think I'm the only one that can
see it. I think expectations, you know,
I always tell people expectations are
what make you really unhappy. And we
can't not have any obviously, but trade
your expectations for appreciation, your
life changes. But our expectations now
are controlled more by social media,
especially that generation, right? So
they're seeing people that are
incredibly wealthy and thinking that's
who I should be and feeling like I don't
have anything. I mean, what turned
people in the Soviet Union against
Soviet Union when they got access to
seeing how the Westerners lived? Then
things changed. When they didn't see it,
it was okay. So today we compare
ourselves to others and in ways that are
not real because like young girls that
go on social media, you've seen all the
studies, I'm sure, they get depressed
because they're comparing to images that
aren't even real. It's fake.
Expectations minus reality equals
happiness. And what I really say is
progress equals happiness. Like if you
are growing, if you are going at
something, even if you're not there yet
and you are got to lose 50 pounds and
you lose the first five or 10 or you're
in a relationship and you finally face
what has to be dealt with or you face
your finances, there's a momentum that
happens and an aliveness. I mean, ask
all of you here and those of you in the
room, how many of you ever achieved a
goal you worked your guts out for and
then achieved it and went, is this all
there is? Who's had this experience? I'm
curious. Right? That's a horrific
moment, right? Horrible. It's worse than
failure cuz most of us simply fail. We
get back up and figure it out. Right?
completely. But try this one for size.
How many of you achieved a goal that you
worked your guts out for and you're
really proud of it and you were
euphoric? Who's had one of those? My
show hands some noise out there if you
give it to me later. Right. So the
question is, how long did that good
feeling last? Did it last 6 years? No. A
year. Euphoria. Six months. Six minutes.
10 minutes. Six weeks. Yeah. Six
minutes. Yeah. For most people, it's
been six minutes and about six weeks I
found. Yeah. And so why is that? Because
we're meant to grow in life. You grow or
you die. the whole universe. They have
my laws. You grow or you die. And when
you grow, you have something to give.
And unless you're giving something
beyond yourself, if it's always a trade,
you don't have any esteem for yourself.
You don't have any inner pride. But when
you have something to give, that's when
life feels more meaningful. Yeah.
Jonathan Heights, uh, book from years
ago, uh, the happiness hypothesis. Yes.
A great study in there on economic
progress being the best predictor of
happiness. It wasn't the absolute
dollars you were earning each year that
flatlined after a certain baseline
standard of living. Beyond that standard
of living once you were able to get food
and housing and all the things you need
to survive and thrive. What predicted
happiness was how much things changed
from year to year. The rate of change
that he's absolutely right in other
studies. But there are new studies that
add another dynamic. It's also affected
by who is in your environment. And today
who's in your environment because the
social media is is not real. And so now
we're in a place where people evaluate
not by their circle of friends they hang
out with. That certainly plays a role,
but even more so. And I've always tell
people if you want to grow, get on the
field with people tfold of where you are
and where you if you want to play tennis
and you're good at tennis and you're
fortunate enough to get sit down with
somebody who's world class like a Serena
Williams friend of mine. If you go out
and do that, you you know you're
terrible. But just to get on the court
with her, you got to get great. If you
play against somebody you're better
than, it's only a matter of time before
your skills go down as well. So I think
our society people have an expectation
today. I also my original teacher Jim
Ran a personal development speaker more
of a business philosopher he I went to
one time when I was really young just
beginning with him and I said all my
fathers are good humans. Why were we
always broke? And I said, and I look at
this, you know, billionaire hedge fund
person, you know, and he made a billion
dollars last year. And this school
teacher only made in those days like
$40,000. And he said, Tony, that's fair.
But here's what I can suggest to you.
We're all equal as souls, but we're not
equal in the marketplace. And he said,
if you go to McDonald's and you get a
you don't get a living wage, you're not
supposed to. It's a first job. Anyone
can do that job and learn it in an hour.
But he said, "If you find a way to add
more value to people," because he said
to me, "Can someone make twice as much
money in the same time?" I said, 'Yeah,
five times, 10, 100 times. He said,
'Yeah.' He said, 'The guy that made a
billion dollars produced a 42% return.
Did you know that? Those are people's
futures. That was people's college
educations. That was their retirements.
He is worth it. You must become assessed
on doing more for others than anybody
else does. And so that's been my moniker
for all my companies. And it's been the
core. And I think that's what's missing
to answer your question. It's like what
what is life going to give me versus the
Kennedy days of don't ask what you're
going to do. How do you help a larger
swath of society then unwind the
addiction to SSRIs, the kind of doom
loop, doom scrolling, like just the
general malaise. Yes. That then
manifests in all these weird ways. The
inability to talk to each other, the,
you know, cut people off because they
voted one way versus another. All this
stuff just seems so cuz all of the
social media, the mobile, the social,
everything's not going away. It's here.
It's permeated and it's not just going
to disappear overnight. But if you study
like the the youngest generation as
they've come forward, they're getting
off of even they obviously they got off
Facebook a long time ago. Their parents
do that stuff, right? But they're not
even on Instagram now. They're going to
these individual places that are more
intimate. They're wanting not everybody
to know what they're doing there. The
pendulum throws itself so extreme and
then we correct. It's what we just
experienced politically. It's the same
thing. So, it's it's easy to rationalize
that. But I'll tell you, you know,
Stanford came to me during the the COVID
time, the period. And they came to me
because two of their professors had gone
through my date with Destiny Center.
It's a 5-day total immersion where you
rewire yourself. Decide what you want. I
don't tell you what your values are, how
you going to live your life. And both of
them had been on medication. Both were
clinically depressed. And they came back
and he said, "They have no symptoms.
They're off all their medication. How
does this happen?" So, we had this long
conversation. And he said, "Well, do you
have some data?" I said, "Well, I have
millions of graduates, you know, and
stories." He goes, "No, no, like
scientific data." I said, "No, but I'd
be open to doing a study." So during co
Oh, wow. to longitudinally follow the
people that have Yes. And so he took but
they put people in. They did their own
study. Cuz I said, "If we're going to do
this, tell me what the standards, what
do the meta studies show?" Like how many
people get well through traditional
approaches of drugs and therapy? And you
know, I don't know if you're aware of
it. It's crazy. 60% of the people who
use drugs or therapy to try and get out
of depression make zero improvement.
60%. 40% improve he shared with me but
the average improvement is 50%. Most are
on drugs the rest of their life and he
goes I said you should be able to do
that with a placebo and he laughed and
said by me it's true in fact and he said
yeah sort of and I said well I know it
sounds like hubris or arrogance but it's
not just done this so long I said we
will destroy that. I said what's the
best study you've ever done? They said
it was John Hopkins now. I think it's
been about eight years ago. And they
gave people psilocybin, magic mushrooms
and and cognitive therapy for a month. I
said, "Well, something had to change
that kind of biochemical shift, right?"
And it was the greatest up until that
point, the greatest result they'd ever
seen in psychiatry. At the end of 6
weeks, 53% of the people had no symptoms
whatsoever of depression. Nothing like
it in history. So I said, "That's my
target to beat." And I said, again,
might sound arrogant, but I said,
"Enough experience. I will bet we do it.
you set up the study with all the
comparison groups and he did and they
ran the study and I'm proud to tell you
that at the end of 6 weeks 97% of the
people had no symptoms whatsoever 7% had
symptoms but they had lessened massively
but 17% had suicidal ideiation coming in
and coming out none did they followed up
a year later 72% reduction in negative
emotions a year after I've not seen them
51% increase in positive emotions so now
we're doing it on business they did a
one-year study with 1500 people they
just finished it and you know In
business, you know, IBIDA is engagement,
right? The most engaged employees and
companies are there. And we've all seen
that drop. If you're not familiar with
it, we usually go three levels. You
measure engagement, disengagement, which
would be now we call it quiet quitting,
and then active disengagement. That's
hard quitting where they're in the
company, but trying to harm it. The
largest drop in history since COVID has
happened on engagement, and the largest
increase in active disengagement. They
took the group in 750 of each group,
test group versus normal group. in four
excuse me in five days they found a
month later the engagement levels
returned far above what they were
precoid but more importantly without any
more interaction with me because they
changed their wiring over the next year
and they followed them for the full year
they they continue to increase their
engagement a lot of what you're doing is
and has its roots in what we call today
CBT cognitive behavioral therapy
attribution theory how you interpret
what people are saying to you but you
also need a pause when you do have uh a
reaction coming to you and just pausing
for a second and then making sure you
understand and checking the reality of
that. These are techniques that you
actually have in your programs. Yes,
they do. But you if you also don't
change the physiology of the person, you
have limited range. I'll give you an
example. They sent a group and followed
me for I think I think maybe explaining
the attribution theory would be really
good for the audience and why that's so
powerful. Well, I I think if I may just
limited time, I think you it's more
important to understand physical change.
Okay. Because your biochemical changes
will last. If I ask you all where you
were on 911, no matter what country
you're in, if you're not in America,
everyone knows where they were. They
what they saw who was there, right?
There's a biochemical change. If I asked
you where on 811, you don't have a clue.
So, what they did is they followed me
and they saw what happened to my body on
stage 12 hours a day, four days in a
row. They had me wear this huge device
and they took my blood and they took my
saliva for hormones every hour on the
hour. And they'd also done this with Tom
Brady. The group has also done this with
uh the Tampa Bay uh Lightning who've won
multiple times. And what they found is
what they call championship
biochemistry. When Tom Brady's down by,
you know, 10 points since the fourth
quarter and he comes back to win, how
does that happen? His biochemistry has
an explosion of testosterone which makes
you remember everything. That's why it
retained and it puts you in a place of
total focus. But with testosterone
usually also have the stress hormone of
cortisol. In Tom's body and he goes
there, the cortisol drops off the cliff.
It's unheard of. They call it champship.
And same thing happens Tampa. same
happens every time I get on stage not
sitting like this but doing what we do
what's more important is they then
decide to measure my audience and they
did it first before co and then I
started doing seminars digitally all
around the world like we have 1.3
million people for a 4-day seminar I
usually did 15 20,000 person stadiums
for 4 days and now that's the size we're
able to grow to and scale and we figure
how to make it work well when they
measured them in 15 different countries
it looks like it looks like music they
come in and we suddenly start to go up
together and make the same response,
same find of focus and the same cortisol
drop and that's why they believe it's
lost. Same thing happens with
engagement, right? It's a biochemical.
So I do believe in all the elements of
cognitive therapy and neuringuistic
program there's so many but without the
unique thing that they saw I did and
that tried to explain how it lasted is
the biochemical shift. So pairing CBT
with this physical activity, this
intensity, yes, that is the secret. That
makes total sense. Otherwise, it won't
last, right? And you know, you can make
it last by repetition, right? By, you
know, affirming. This is why when we go
on a retreat and they organize these
corny corporate retreats, it's not corny
that they want to do a thrilling
experience and go white water rafting to
help people bond because people's lives
are so sedentary. They don't experience
this. And that's why all you lunatics
are jumping in ice cold bats every year.
Yes. That's why you feel alive. You must
have a very high like excitement level.
Like you got to be in a helicopter and
you got to jump in cold water to be to
feel alive at this point. I've been
doing the 18 years in the last 10 or 12
years. Everybody does it now. But yes.
No, but it's also I'm a biohacker. I
have to be able to get up and do imagine
I I burn 11,500 calories 11,300 calories
on average in a day. I jump a thousand
times. I'm in a stadium. I'm not just
standing there. If you're standing
there, you'll be bored out of your mind.
I engage or I'm running up the walls.
I'm there with everybody. I could strike
at any moment. That's what keeps people
fully alive. But when you do that, I'm
jumping 1,000 times. I weigh 290 lbs.
Every time you come down, they explain
it's four times your body weight. So,
it's a million pounds, you know, of
pressure. And I'm doing that I've been
doing that since I was, you know,
basically 19 years old. This is my 48th
year doing it. If you had been uh
diagnosed by like the industrial
psychological psychiatry complex these
days, would they just have said you were
like a kid with ADHD or something? What
do you think? I don't know what they'd
come up with. I'm a freak as far as
they're concerned. I'm sure the scale.
But you know what's nice now is I have
virtually every psychological leader out
of maybe a dozen of them have endorsed
what we do. In fact, now therapists in
various states in the United States can
actually study my work, see the results
because there's very few places you can
see an intervention and then follow up
and see what the result was a year later
and they get credits for that. If you
circle back to when Tom Cruz said, hey,
listen, you know, exercise, diet, uh,
meditation, and he and he kind of laid
out there's other ways to deal with
depression and everybody would like what
does he know? These doctors know better.
And now the doctors have all come back
to his position which is let's focus on
your diet, let's focus on your exercise,
let's focus on your sleep. Yes. And
let's focus on your meditation. Those
four things will do more to you than any
pill. Correct. In your estimation, 100%.
Yet we have 60% of people in the country
on a pill in some of these. And most of
them have more than one. Anytime you
combine three pills, you cannot predict
the outcome in your body. And what about
Tony? Then the move away from SSRIs now
to psychedelics and psilocide. Like
there's all these it's all these
curalls. Yes. Well, um I'm sure you saw
the cover of Newsweek a couple years
ago. It talked about was on the cover
and it said SSRIs don't work. They
don't. They've been proven not to work
by the meta studies, but we're still
given to millions of people. And the
side effects are depression, sometimes
suicidal. It's insane. So looking for
something else to rewire your brain is
why people are starting to either mildly
dose or heavily dose or go on these
pieces. But the problem there, there's
nothing wrong with it. Anybody wants to
do whatever they want to do. I'm not
approved about how to do it. But I like
the idea of being able to take charge
and make conscious decisions. But I've
had that experience. I went and
investigated that myself directly. went
down, you know, into South America, had
an experience. It was quite profound,
but it's like, what are you going to do
with it? Some people it just becomes
another way to party, you know, and that
then you're not going to get any results
that really matter. If you're doing it
with a therapist, with intentionality,
with a guide like I was I was completely
against it and I met Tony Bosses um from
uh was it Columbia or New York
University and I said, you know, I'm
just not into drugs. You know, I'm not a
freak, but people around me overuse them
and abuse them. So, I I've always just
not done that. And he said, ' Tony, it's
not a drug because a drug you take at it
one, you know, you got to take it every
day. He said this, I'll show you. And he
showed me videos. He said, 'These are
people that, he was working with people
that have been diagnosed with cancer,
terminal cancer, right? And he said,
"Watch this." He said, "I'm going to
show you in advance. This woman is an
atheist. She's not like a California
atheist, like there might be some God in
the trees or something. She's a New York
atheist. There is no God." Yeah. Right.
And he shows me the video. You know,
they they do two different sessions.
They don't know which one's going to be
it. and she comes out at the end of the
the session where she had the experience
and she said I experienced God and and
about 96% of the people say it's one of
the three most profound experiences of
their life. it was for me. Um, and I
used to I can handle anything, but the
one thing I was weak at, I'll be honest
with you, was like somebody dying cuz I
had handled that within myself. And uh,
so that's why I went to do it. And I I
don't have a fear of dying. I don't want
I don't want to die, but I don't have
the fear of it before. And if you went
through deep trauma in your childhood,
psychedelics can, I'm told, take you
right to that place and you will have to
confront it. And that's why doing it in
a safe environment, especially if you're
a child of trauma with an alcoholic
father, which I had as well, very
challenging. Uh, I don't recommend going
to just a guru or somebody like when I
went down in South America only because
there are a lot of people that take
advantage of women down there in this
because once you're in that state, it's,
you know, you're really, you don't know
what's you're in a world, a different
world. So I really say you want to there
are people now there's a big push at
UCLA they're they're they're doing it
Stanford they're all studying it now and
I think using it in that area make a
difference but my point is you get the
same results without it and I'm not
suggesting people have to do it one way.
Yeah. Tony can I build on Freeberg's
question which is happiness is sort of a
rate of change problem. Yes. You're
incredibly successful. You're incredibly
famous. You have a great family. You're
really fabulously wealthy. There's all
this stuff. How do you frame your mind
in terms of this rate of change? So
you're seeing progress like do you do
that for yourself? Like yes of course I
think I think men and women it's a
generalization but I think they evaluate
life differently. I think most men have
grown up in a hierarchal world some
women do as well and they have an idea
of where they think they should be at a
certain time and most people are not
there at times where if you're fortunate
enough you're ahead ahead of the game. I
got to the point probably 10 years ago
where I had done all these things. I
didn't have any less enthusiasm, but I
didn't have anything that like what am I
going to do now? And and I'd done
philanthropy my whole life cuz, you
know, I got fed, so I started feeding
people. I did it at 17. I fed two
families and then four and I got hooked
on it. And then I got my little company
involved. And then we got to two million
people. And then 2 million from me and 2
million from, you know, the general
public. And then when I was writing
Money Master the Game, I wrote
interviewed Ray Dalia, Carl and Warren
Buffett, all the best in the business.
And I I saw at the same time I'm
interviewing these billionaires that the
government cut food stamps now. It's
called the SNAP program. Yeah. By six I
think it was $6 billion. It means every
family that needs food would have to go
out with one week of food unless people
like us step up. So I called my
foundation. I said, "How many people
have I fed in my lifetime?" Because I
didn't know the number. They said 42
million. I was like really gratified by
that. But I also was saying like, "What
if I did what I did in a whole lifetime
in a year? What if I fed 50 million
people in a year?" And I was like, "What
if I fed a 100 million? What about that
100 million for 10 straight years and
fed a billion people in the United
States, richest country in the world,
but we have about 20 million people that
don't know where the next meal is going
to come from. And I hooked up with
Feeding America to deliver the food. And
I'm proud to say we did it in 8 years.
But the problem hasn't gone away. And so
now I hooked up with uh Governor Beasley
when I was in the UAE. He introduced me
to Governor Beasley. NBZ did. And he
explained to me that he ran the World
Food Program. Yes. He he won the Nobel
Prize for that. NBZ said, "I want you to
meet the only guy I know that's needed
more people than you." I said, "He's
being a lot more than I am at the UN."
But we sat down and we became friends.
And now I said to him, he normally 80
million people a year are at risk of
dying. This year it's 385 million
because of the war in Ukraine. It is the
bread basket for most of Africa and
there are 11 countries near famine right
now. And you don't read about in the
news because you're reading about
something on somebody's knuckles, right?
And um and I said to him, well, and then
there's not enough fertilizer because
Russia's been cut off and it made the
price triple and farmers can't afford
it. So I said, we need a period of time
to get to sustainability. 10 years,
let's say. How many meals would we need
in the meantime just to close the gap?
He said, Tony, 50, 60, maybe 70 billion
meals. So I said, why don't we do a
100red billion meals challenge? I said,
I did a billion meals. I did it supposed
to be in 10 years. 100 million years,
100 million meals a year. I wasn't a
billionaire when I started. I've been
blessed obviously, but there's got to be
99 other people like me who care or
businesses or countries. And so we began
that process 2 and a half years ago. In
the beginning, it did not go well, but
I'm proud to tell you in the first year
and a half, we got 30 billion meals.
I'll be announcing at the UN coming up
this fall. U I can't tell you the
numbers supposed to wait till then, but
more than double that. So we're well
beyond that. But right now in Duffer,
thank you. Thank you very much. Thank
you.
Thank you.
Thank you. I appreciate your I
appreciate your applause. But I think
also we want sustainability and any of
you that want to donate, I'll match. I
do it at Feeding America. You donate a
million dollars, I'll match it. You can
put a $10 in, I'll match it. But now
Darur, you know, people, you know, we
get these war zones now. And there are
people right now surrounded by those
rebels. A million people right now. And
no one's funding anything because no one
can get they'll shoot the plane out of
this guy. So, we just Governor Beasley
and I have just teamed up and we have
found this group, this military group
that's retired that want to do good
works. They've done it for a while and
we're buying the C130s. I'm donating the
first million meals for the week. I got
two people to match me. So, we have
three weeks worth of food. We're going
to fly in and airdrop all that food. I'm
going to UAE because I know the leaders
there. We're going to Saudi Arabia. I'm
going to say, "You can't shoot this
down. This is not political. There's no
weapons. It's just food." And we're
going to prove it works. And then we
have a tour June 7th through the 15th
with all those leaders to get them to
hopefully step up. Kar's already stepped
up and said they're going to give 30
million and we're going to save those
lives. So people will die otherwise, you
know, and everybody just gives up. I'm
not a person who gives up.
But I just want to say that to answer
your question for anybody, I think we
all need moonshots. It's like we all
need something to go for. Yeah. You've
ever achieved a goal and then there's a
drop because we're made to keep growing.
And so when I did that, then I was like,
"Okay, my wife and I, we we found some
kids that were trafficked. We couldn't
believe it." And I said, "I want to save
as many people in the city I grew." And
it was 30,000 people. So now we're
76,000 kids we saved. I worked some of
the best organizations. Helped make a
movie some of you may have seen uh last
year that was or two years ago um that
was all about this process. And it and
it it blew up on July 4th. You know, the
sound of Is it hard for you to frame
your mind on a goal that's measured
differently than the thing that you were
successful at? What do you mean? Oh, my
goal is to make money. And then you make
a ton of money and then you're like, now
my goal is to do something
philanthropic. It's a totally different
measurement. And what happens, as you
said, even if you're motivated by it, a
lot of the people around you may be very
unmotivated by it and almost pull you
back from it. Well, I'll tell you, I've
done this my whole life. I had um I
Peter Goober's our mutual friend, you
know, Peter. Peter, one time I was
arguing or not arguing, sharing with him
my frustration that people weren't
helping these children or helping, you
know, trafficking because it because it
sounds so bad. You don't want to hear
about it. And Peter really was a
student. He said, Tony, he said, you
taught me this. People do things for
different reasons. Some people donate
because they want their name on the
wall. Some people donate because they're
guilty because they inherited their
money. But some people donate because
they really care. You don't care. Just
meet their needs. And so I found like I
had a friend that was on a plane the
other day. I've known him 44 years and
person's reading my book. Uh this is my
book I did interviewed 150 people who
are the top regenerative scientists in
the world, right? So it's a big book 700
page and this guy's marking it and he's
you know just going crazy. And my friend
loves to see how people respond. He
says, "So what do you think of that
book?" And he goes, "Oh my god, stem
cells and this and that or you can't
believe what you can do with your body
and change." And he goes, "What do you
think of the author?" He goes, "Oh, he
seems like such a nice guy. He took
nothing from all his books. He donated
it all. He feeds all these people."
Well, but he is rich, he said. So, it
must be easy for him. And my buddy
turned to him and said, "What if I told
you I'd known Tony for 44 years? I knew
him when he had $10 in his pocket.
Didn't know he's going to give his next
meal. And he gave five it to a guy in
the street. And that he taught me if I
won't give a dollar, you know, dime out
of a dollar. I'm never going to give a
hundred million out of a billion." And
you start now. You start now and your
life is different. So, I invite people
to find a moonshot. And mine started
with feeding two families and then it
becomes four and then it becomes larger.
But now my economics, you know, are
obviously extraordinary. But what drives
me now is all the things I'm doing and I
need tens of millions of dollars for
what I donate. Let me ask you a question
on that, which is how do you think about
the relationship between focus and
effectiveness. A lot of folks and my
experience has been the more we try and
do the more the breadth of the things we
try and do, the harder it is to do any
one thing exceptionally well and have
these outsized returns. And there's a
nonlinear relationship between focus and
outcome. The more you concentrate your
time, energy, capital on one thing, it
becomes nonlinear how well that thing
does when you're an effective person.
You have movie projects, book projects,
speaking engagements, businesses,
ownership and sports teams, people
calling you. How do you think about
focusing your time and the effectiveness
that you can then have in the things
that you choose to do? I believe in
concentration of power, but I don't have
the limitation of thinking it has to be
every moment on just one thing. So, I
actually built a system for myself when
I was really young and I had my my
second business. I wasn't doing well at
my first one, so I started a second one.
Very brilliant. It's like saying I'm now
terrible parents. Let me have another
kid. That's what most people do as
entrepreneurs. So, but I knew I needed
to take control of my time. So, I took
these time management courses and they,
you know, you have a little book in
those days and your A, B, and C
priorities. And I did it for about two
weeks. And then after a while, I was
like, there's no way I can do everything
on my list. And I was frustrated. Who
can relate to this by the way in your
own life? Right? And so I was like I
said, every time management system does
the same thing. I don't know if it's
digital or not. You start with the same
question. Now thinking is nothing but
the process of asking and answering
questions. Now as I said that you're
going to think and you're ask yourself
is that true or not? And you're going to
evaluate it through your references. And
that's a question isn't it? We could
take you all way down the line but for
simple sake the question of what I need
to do is the wrong question. So I will
tell you this when President Clinton M
said what should I do? And I taught
myself something different. I said, I
need to control my focus. Concentrate
it. But I also need to have purpose
behind it because, you know, purpose is
stronger than object. I'm going to make
a billion dollars for what though. The
purpose, that's where the energy in the
fuel is. And then I need a map. I called
it RPM, like increasing your RPMs to get
from here to there. And you know the
result. Then I ask what do I want?
What's the result measurable? Why am I
doing it? And then what's the map, the
massive action plan? And then I go find
the 20% of things will give me 80% of
the progress. And then I put things in
categories. I have companies in
categories. I have my family life in a
category. My body's in a category. And
every week I predetermine what are the
most important outcomes for the week.
But when you do that, you are able to
have that concentration of power. And I
where I am, I'm there 1 million%. And I
I found that skill of concentration
doesn't have to be just one thing. If
like in your businesses, you get great
leaders. Obviously, I couldn't do all
these things myself. Um, but when I've
got great, you know, when you got
partners that are extraordinary in the
health area, you know, I created this
company called Fountain Life and I got
Peter Diamandis as my partner. He's a
genius. I I partnered uh with Sam
Nazarian, some of you know from SPS,
right? He created Mandreon and SLS
hotels and we're building 15
extraordinary luxury hotels around the
world where you can go and be scan and
everything there.
Now I love it. Even though if it's too
much, you love it. And I have time for
my daughter, which I adore, right? She's
four years old. I'm I'm saying it in
slightly in justest cuz you are
hyperefficient. You got this crazy
energy level. There is a theory that
sometimes be people become a little too
addicted to success and to you know
improving themselves. Do you ever stop
and just like enjoy the the day and not
try to improve everything? You ever stop
and just like laugh and maybe enjoy some
sushi and punk golf with your friends
and play some cards or does everything
have to be the 78th millionth meal and
person you saved? No. Well, there's a
part of me that's that way for sure.
Really? What do you do? No, I there's a
part of me the first part that's as
crazy as you describe, but there's
another part of me that I value love and
relationship above all else. Got it. So,
like, you know, Peter's one of my
dearest friends for 35 years. He was
down here in Miami. Called me up and we
had everything booked. I moved
everything and we spent two hours just
staying out together cuz I love him
dearly. He's 8 82 83 years old right
now. I don't know a better human being.
He's my priority. My daughter's my
priority. Um my outcomes change when
there's something more important, right?
That's there. But I've also learned that
I have to be able to turn the switch off
and I do that. And I do that you Ray Dal
is a good friend and you know learning
to meditate was something I thought I'd
never do in my life. But I've developed
a simpler pattern I developed for myself
and meditation I start my days with. I
have to take care of my body and when
I'm doing those things and I also when
everybody else goes to bed that's when I
get my thinking time and so from
midnight till 3 or 4 for me is usually
my time to Are you like a three hour
sleeper like a four hour? No, like four
and a half to five. Not ideal five is
ideal for me but uh I can certainly do
that. That's always been that way.
That's sort of you know not when I was a
kid but once I discovered my passion for
you know you've all heard the phrase
right the two most important days of
your life the day you're born the day
you discover what you're born for. And
when I discovered that, the energy in my
body changed radically. Do you think
about um I'm curious, uh mortality a
lot. I know you're into the stem cells.
You're you know, you're we're all
getting to a certain age and we're all
going to the same destination and uh
looking back on your life and then
finding meaning in that. I know some
people our age start thinking about
legacy. Does that like matter to you?
And are you thinking about, hey,
how many years do I have left? I never
thought of that till about 64. I'm 65
now. Uh I never did. So just in the last
year you started thinking about it last
year. Was there something that caused
that to happen? My daughter I think
having my daughter come along. I had her
at 61. You had a daughter at 61. Yeah.
She's four years old. Four years old.
Wow. Yeah. So I've got a 50-year-old
daughter and a Got it. I was confused by
the math when you said all that and I
was asking the question cuz you know in
your brain it's all questions and
answers.
I told my wife originally I said I'm
going to have a kid by 50. I said I I
don't want to be there at my kids's high
school reunion or excuse me graduation
and I'm you know 70 years old and I'll
be 80 when I do that piece but I look at
people like Peter or Steve Win like I
have a whole group of friends that are
in their 80s that are Peter's doing more
today than he did when I when he was 45.
Yeah. And so I look at that and say but
but you got to take care of your body.
And so and there are things you don't
predict. I my eye may look a little
weird to some of you and may not notice,
but uh about 3 weeks ago, no five weeks
ago, I starting to feel irritation in my
bladder and hard time breathing. It was
very weird and I'm very, you know, I
have a really intense way. I do
hyperaric oxygen cryotherapy. So, it's
really weird for me not to have that.
And um so I went and got tested at found
life where we have our stuff and they
found I had this massive amount of
arsenic in my body like a zero to five
was they measure it. 50 would be off the
charts. I was 3:45 and it was so bad the
first thing he said is you got to watch
your eyes and 5 days later my uh retina
detached which can make you blind. So I
went in for emergency surgery here in
Miami, one of the best doctors out here
and normally you have to take the
surgery and then you have to lie on your
stomach for a week and not get up
looking down because they put this gas
behind the retina. Oh my god. But
fortunately I I Bobby Kennedy I put him
together with Trump. He's a good friend.
I called him. He got me with top guys at
two different hospitals. They said,
"This is the guy. We got it all
together." And he said, "I think this is
not as effective. It's not like 90%
effect. It's like 70, but if it works,
you can." He goes, "I can't imagine you
lying on your stomach for seven straight
days and nights, not moving." I said, "I
can't either." And he said, "If I do
this, it's like a belt around your eye,
and you'll be able to sit up at least."
So, that was only three and a half weeks
ago. And so, this eye is still having
some pieces. So, of course, that made me
pay attention. But yesterday I operate I
found out from Fountain Life there is a
new approach to your immune system
because all this is coming out because
my immune system was affected by these
metals. By the way all of you have if
you could give yourself a gift you
should get tested for metals. There are
so many metals in our food. There are
all these great blood tests you can do
with fountain other services and you can
do them every six months for $500. And
our doctors never told them to do this.
They just would like be like oh yeah
your blood works good. But when you
think you're aging, often what it is is
poisons in your body, metals in your
body. It's so crazy. So there I want
everybody to know about this. There's a
name man named Dr. Xiao and I've I've
seen everything. I wrote Life Force 150
of the best regenerative doctors in the
world know about I know of them all.
I've interviewed them all. This to me is
like the number one thing to go to. So
he has created this. I've done stem
cells. I healed my shoulder with stem
cells. I didn't have to go through
surgery. But he does this what he calls
re-education of your immune system. my
beta cells were through the floor from
all these metals. So now all the other
things your body would fight off are
coming through, right? And now my whole
body was going in reaction. So I said,
"There's an answer. I'm going to detox."
And I'm proud to tell you and they told
me it could take two years. It took five
weeks and I've got all the metals down
to normal levels at least now, which I'm
so thrilled about. But then what I'm
going to do for my immune system? So Dr.
Zho, he's been around. He he discovered
the stem cells that are in the blood,
not MSE cells, but these blood cells.
And he's worked 25 years to do it. I've
never seen anything like it in my life.
He does plasma feresis. You probably
have heard of it where they take blood
out and they put it through a filter and
it's can be very useful. I've had that
before. But what he does, he takes your
blood through and he takes your white
blood cells, your immune system out
overnight. He puts it through a filter
with cord stem cells. You don't actually
put someone else's cord stem cells in
you. It's the intelligence that gets
transferred and then it puts it back in
your body and then they spread and
change your immune system back 20 years.
That sounds like a ridiculous uh
promotion. This guy's not a promoter at
all and it's all science. But I watched
I what got me to go there is my um one
of the people my Helen Dr. Helen from
our place at Fountain Life showed me she
said Tony I think this is what you got
to do. She's on this ALS patient. ALS is
usually you know it's a it's a death
sentence and this guy's shaking and he
can't take his hands above here. He does
the process. Three weeks later he's
doing this. No exaggeration. They do
type 1 diabetes and turn it around. any
autoimmune diseases there and most of
aging is really the breakdown of the
immune system. That's why we're seeing
so many cancers after COVID and the
injections. A lot of young people, these
turbo cancers are happening because
their immune systems have been harmed.
And so now everything starts to shake
up. When people think about aging, it's
really immune system. So the type of
people are going with alipcia where they
have no hair. This one I met her and she
got a full and she's 70 years old, got
all her hair back. It's in New Jersey
and he's already at sta he's on an IND.
So he's on stage three though. has gone
through his stage three. He's doing his
submittal and we're going to bring it to
fountain life here because there's
nothing like I've seen it. But there are
things like that like if you stay well
and take care of yourself now over the
next 5 to 10 years, the kinds of
transformations are going to allow us to
be in a position where every year you
could be a year younger at least
maintain where you are. I mean it's not
it's not science fiction. Freeberg talks
about this all the time on the show like
we're like this very interesting
generation. We're 10 years behind you or
maybe 15 in some cases. Um but or even
20 actually I think um but the we're
this generation that we actually might
get to benefit from some of these
incredible technological advancements.
You absolutely will. Ladies and
gentlemen, Tony Robbins. Thank you so
much. Bring it in.
Thanks for tuning in to this amazing
episode we had with Tony Robbins. And
thank you Tony Robbins for joining us.
Our new bestie here at Allin. If you
want to come to our next event, it's the
All-In Summit in Los Angeles. fourth
year for All-In Summit. Go to
allin.com/events
to apply. A very special thanks to our
new partner, OKX, the new money app. OKX
was the sponsor of the McLaren F1 team,
which won the race in Miami. Thanks to
Haidider and his team, an amazing
partner and an amazing team. We really
enjoyed spending time with you. And OKX
launched their new crypto exchange here
in the US. If you love All-In, go check
them out. And a special thanks to our
friends at Circle. They are the team
behind USDC. Yes, your favorite stable
coin in the world. USDC is a fully
backed digital dollar redeemable one for
one for USD. It's built for speed,
safety, and scale. They just announced
the Circle Payments Network. This is
enterprisegrade infrastructure that
bridges the gap between the digital
economy and outdated financial reality.
Go check out USDC for all your stable
coin needs. And special thanks to my
friends including Shane over at Poly
Market, Google Cloud, Salana, and BVNK.
We couldn't have done it without y'all.
Thank you so much.
We'll let your winners ride.
Rainman David.
We open sourced it to the fans and
they've just gone crazy with it. Love
you. Queen of
[Music]
your winners.
Besties are gone.
That is my dog taking notice in your
driveways.
Oh man, my habitasher will meet me up.
We should all just get a room and just
have one big huge orgy cuz they're all
just useless. It's like this like sexual
tension that we just need to release
somehow.
[Music]
We need to get back.
[Music]
I'm going all in.