# Podcast Transcript
# Show: All-In with Chamath, Jason, Sacks & Friedberg
# Episode: IPOs and SPACs are Back, Mag 7 Showdown, Zuck on Tilt, Apple's Fumble, GENIUS Act passes Senate
# YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86t6YNf_B7Q
# Downloaded: 2025-07-19 20:58:23

All right everybody, welcome back to the
number one podcast in the world. I'm
your host and executive producer for
life. Isn't that right, Dave Freeberg,
Jay Cal, not at all what you are.
Make sure you tune in startups and apply
to Founder University.
You're something very different.
With us again today, the Sultan of
science, David Freedberg.
Can I just congratulate you on your
fourth baby? If you double that number,
you're going to be able to catch up to
Chimoth and his five plus three
illegitimate. How are you doing?
[Music]
Let your winners ride.
[Music]
We open sourced it to the fans and
they've just gone crazy with it.
How you feeling? You're tired and
grumpy, aren't you? You're a little
transition for me. I didn't have to do
the work. It's all
Are you tired and grumpy? And how's
Allison? How's How's the
Everyone's wonderful. Thank you for
asking.
And a beautiful boy. Beautiful.
Nothing more is crushing.
Nothing more amazing than seeing a
child.
How's magnificent? Magnificent. Thank
you for asking. Thank you for asking
that. Yeah. Okay, let's move on. Thank
you.
Thank you for all the kind words. And uh
just we sent over a gift basket, Chimath
and I. Longhorn Pana Stakes uh a 10-year
uh membership for
Oh, hey, congrats to Olivia Landon, by
the way, of Long Hill Wagyu. She had
twins.
That means she's going to have more
people to work on the ranch and
slaughter cattle to send us our pana.
Congratulations. Shout out.
Congrats to Olivia Landon.
It's so funny cuz we love this. We love
these steaks so much. She doubled. We
mentioned it on the pod and you idiots
started like searching for it. Lunatics
and they ordered out all the Koolette
steak. So now Chant and I are screwed.
No crew.
No, they ordered out everything.
Everything was sold up.
Everything was sold up.
So now we have to gatekeep with us
again. Your chairman dictator Chimath
Polyhapatia. He of two votes in our fine
organization. How you doing, Chimath?
I love voting control. I'm doing great.
He starts Thomas Lefant with a uh tie
and then all of the
gamesmanship
happens between the team of rivals me
and Freeberg. With us again, Thomas
Lefant, a gentleman, a scholar. No idea
why he's here. a true I don't know how
he wound up on this podcast, but a true
gentleman, a true scholar and host of
Easts meets West, an incredible
conference that I attended this week
with our bestie David Saxs, who of
course is at the White House and can't
join us. Uh, but Thomas, what a great
event. Thank you for including me.
No box lunches, by the way. We we took
your feedback from a couple of years
ago, so I hope that we met your
standard. you did upgrade highlights for
you guys at your conference, Thomas.
I mean, I think for me, obviously, I
think a lot of news in AI this week.
So, I think that was kind of the center
piece of most of the panels pretty much
up and down the stack from SAS companies
trying to transform into AI to obviously
the big Zuck news on scale and then
potentially I saw in the information
today the the Nat Friedman news. So, it
feels like there's a lot going on in the
industry. So, should be fun to talk
about. Yeah. And we're going to talk
about it all today. We got a a really
full docket. Rick Caruso, the uh mayor
who would have saved Los Angeles from
the fires. He was there and you actually
hosted at his incredible facility. What
a
we did. We talked about the the state of
LA, which JCL, is that is that it looks
like that's where you're at, right?
Yes. I'm at my uh LA home, which uh
aka the compound.
Uh yeah, it's uh it's available on
Airbnb, so I'm here in LA. But yeah,
Rick Caruso, what a great speaker.
Interestingly, Jake Al, today a friend
just sent me a chart showing the
recovery of restaurants postco
andif uh LA is 50% behind on the
recovery per store location versus the
national average.
What do you attribute that to or what
did they attribute it to?
I think I think there's kind of a couple
different things, right? And I think one
the economy which you know unlike the
San Francisco economy being levered to
to AI and on the upswing is more levered
to entertainment and I think
you know secular decline I think you
know someone mentioned at the conference
that filmmings in LA are down 50% from
peak so I mean that's just a a massive
move down losing share to other geos
both in the US I think Georgia right Jay
Cal was mentioned I mean, Ted Cerrone
has explained exactly how aggressive New
York is being, uh, the UK is being,
Atlanta, I mean, so many different hubs
for movies giving much better deals than
Los Angeles is.
Yeah. So, I think it's a it's a
combination of I think, you know, being
levered to one industry that's kind of
in secular decline.
I can tell you from Mr. Beast that for
Beast Games, we had a deal in Las Vegas
and in Toronto, we got huge tax credits.
And in the second season that we're
doing for Amazon,
we did an enormous deal with the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia. And so we're filming a
bunch of episodes there. We're building
the sets there. We're actually going to
keep them there after it's all said and
done. We would not film in Los Angeles
unless we absolutely had to. We will
stay as far away from California as
possible.
And regulations are such a big part of
this.
It's on economic. You can't make it
work.
Yeah. 30% more expensive I think it's is
the kind of the official number on on
well there's also speed right Thomas
like how quickly can you stand something
up how many how much paperwork do you
have to file
James Beard Foundation I'm seeing here
from the research has found that all
these independent restaurant owners said
they just can't get staff here so in Los
Angeles it's just hard for people to
live here and it's hard to get through
the regulations and if you make it hard
there are other options for people this
idea that California has a lock on uh
anything other than incredible weather
and beautiful people is Farsol. There's
a lot of beautiful people in other
places with decent weather and you can
you can go do your projections there. So
another topic that came up that a lot of
people were talking about something that
I know you've talked a lot about our our
debt issue and the debt to GDP ratio.
There was a lot of talk on the on the
flip side on the GDP side. What if
actually AI can increase productivity
and regrow GDP faster than expectations,
right? And perhaps that's one of the
reasons why, you know, interest rates
might not be quite as high as you might
expect given some of the trends that you
guys have talked about.
So, I think a lot of a lot of
discussions around
AI productivity and what we could look
at over the next, you know, five to 10
years because of the the improvements
we're seeing. This is particularly
beneficial to the US, right? I mean, if
you think about where AI is going to
acrue economic surplus first, it's
likely going to be in the US, not global
GDP. So, the US kind of does it compete
dollars or it increases overall
productivity or both
ahead of the rest of the world. If we do
see advances from AI to accelerate GDP
growth, is that because of all of the
onshoring of manufacturing and industry
that we outsource today? Like do you
think that that goes handinhand with
AI acceleration? I think that's part of
it and I think the other part is just
getting even out of the you know the
knowledge worker workforce, right? Just
getting significant productivity
productivity improvements there. One of
the things that we showed in our keynote
is the adoption of these technologies
and even taking doctors as an example,
right? An area you know well you know
this new company
um kind of coming in and and developing
kind of a diagnosis kind of engine right
that's now used by a third of doctors.
So you know I I think that uh it's open
evidence by the way is the name of the
company and already a third of US
physicians are on the platform using it
you know 10 times a day to kind of help
diagnosis. So in particular in oncology
as an example it's seen significant
traction. So, you know, you multiply
that by the legal profession, coding. I
think we're already seeing, you know,
what if we just see kind of a an
explosion of productivity gains across,
you know, both the physical and the
digital economy.
Yeah. The doctor one's a good example.
If someone had the opportunity to go get
more regular preventative checkups, um,
they would. The problem is it's very
expensive. It's hard to get an
appointment or insurance won't cover it.
But if the cost to a doctor goes down
because they can leverage AI, the
throughput goes up by 10x. They can see
10 times as many patients per day, then
suddenly diagnostic care becomes more
available. They can charge for that.
They don't need to charge the same
amount. The price will come down per
checkup, but you'll more people will be
able to get a checkup per day. So that
grows GDP in diagnostic care. That grows
the size of that piece of the economy.
It's a very good example. give you, by
the way,
anything where AI provides leverage to a
service provider where their throughput
now goes up. Um,
I'll give you another example of that.
Um, Dave, uh, so there was an LA dentist
that kind of hit got viral this week. I
don't know if you guys saw this story,
but basically he um he created an ad
using V3
about a skydiving gorilla.
Yeah, I saw that.
Who, you know, ultimately needs to get
his teeth fixed because he was drinking
while he was jumping out of the plane.
And you know, it's a very kind of funny
viral ad. He probably made it for a
couple, you know, hundred bucks. And now
his practice is totally full. He's been
flooded with requests, right, for the
new dental implants. So, you know, to
your point about increasing
productivity, boom, there's how how V3
can help a local dentist. All right,
everybody. Welcome to the number one
podcast in the world. We got a full
docket. Full docket. But we're going to
rocket the docket because there's so
much going on here. Zuck is tilted
clearly. Uh this has been the big
discussion in Silicon Valley for the
last 10 days or so. According to
reports, Zuck is super frustrated that
Meta is falling behind in AI. So he is
swinging for the fences. Sam Waltman
said Meta has offered top open AI
employees a $100 million, wait for it,
signing bonus. That's not comp, that's a
signing bonus. Who knows if this is true
or not, but he's also offering 100
million a year in annual comp. He's
clearly cut out tens of billions of
dollars for this effort. Not dissimilar
to when he did his VR efforts that
didn't work out so well. Here's a 30
secondond clip of Sam Alman talking
about this on his brother Jack's
podcast uncapped.
They started making these like giant
offers to uh you know a lot of people on
our team.
Um you know like $100 million signing
bonuses more than that comp per year.
Crazy.
And I'm actually It is crazy. I'm really
happy that at least so far uh none of
our best people have decided to take
them up on that. I think that people
sort of look at the two paths and say
all right OpenAI's got a really good
shot a much better shot at actually
delivering on super intelligence uh and
also may eventually be the more valuable
company. Meta just also vested over 14
billion I'm using invested in quotes in
scale AI for 49% stake and uh this
probably is better described as a shadow
aqua hire to get around antitrust
scrutiny. You remember Microsoft did
that with Inflection AI back in the day.
Google did it with Character AI and
Amazon did it with Adept AI. I'm not
sure if this is necessary anymore uh
since Lena Khan's no longer in the
position. Scale CEO Alexander Wang and
others will be joining Meta to work on a
new super intelligence team. They're
saying that Scale is going to remain an
independent company and get a new CEO.
Not sure if that's going to happen.
And if you don't know, uh Scale does
data labeling. They get experts to help
train language models. Two of their
biggest customers are OpenAI and Google,
and they both canled their contracts.
So, Zuck is taking that chess piece off
the board so he can get all that data
into his LLMs. He's also reportedly in
talks to hire former GitHub CEO Nat
Freiedman and Daniel Gross to work on
AI. They have a incubator investment
fund for AI. Daniel Gross had a really
cool startup incubator called Pioneer
Labs. I had him on this week in startups
a couple years ago. Really smart cat.
Meta has 70 billion in cash. Thomas
Lefant, when you see Zuck doing this,
what's your take not only on what Zuck's
doing, but how big of an opportunity is
this, you know, in terms of the prize of
having the best large language model?
What is he going for here? And uh what's
your take on these really aggressive
packages and 49% purchases?
I mean, look, I think one it it feels
highly rational, right? If you think
about Meta's market cap is uh rough math
1.7 trillion. If you're the CEO and you
ultimately believe that maybe 50% of
your market cap is at risk because of AI
850 billion,
why would you not spend maybe four or 5%
of that if you think it increases the
odds even slightly that you're going to
win the market? So to me it it kind of
reminded me of a few few things. number
one the scale and size of the
opportunity right obviously people think
AI is massive but frankly um Jake I'm
even wondering putting the regulatory
scrutiny to the side if it was time he
just didn't want to wait and obviously
doing it this way I think Alex literally
the next day who's the co of scale can
show up to work at Meta so I think it's
it's urgency of a large opportunity um
I'm curious to get Chamas's take because
it reminded me a little bit of the pivot
away from HTML 5 and also So a a much
smaller acquisition but one that we
really felt which was of a company
called Onavo.
And for those that may not remember
Onavo was a small data service provider
but what it did is it had a panel of
phones and we as investors could see
what people which apps people were using
and the data was incredibly valuable
because it was the only service that
gave you true engagement data. And so
obviously as an investor you felt wow
this is an incredible tool and
eventually it sold to to Facebook and
Facebook used it internally and didn't
allow anybody else to use it and we lost
one of our key abilities right in the
mobile app revolution to tell who was
winning and losing.
So um
and you're saying the scale acquisition
is you know uh parallels that in a bit
there's this great service a lot of
people rely on it. He buys it shuts it
down for everybody else gets the tool
for himself. gets the data for himself.
Correct. So, I definitely see parallels
and I think given this, you know, their
market cap and the size of this
opportunity, I think it makes a lot of
sense.
Shimath, your thoughts on Zuck's action.
Obviously, folks know you worked with
him as you went from tens of millions of
Facebook users to hundreds of millions.
And you were there actually during the
uh HTML rapper app disaster. Uh that uh
I think maybe
that was a debate at our executive team
at our M team and I was on the side of
apps and well without embarrassing him.
Somebody else was on the side of HTML 5.
I thought it was [ __ ] stupid. Why?
Why? Why was that? But that decision one
because you know all of my political
capital at the time was also wrapped
into native apps, our own phone, an
entire verticalized integrated stack.
And politically
I think I made the decision for them
very hard because I was not a very
play nice in the sandbox with others
kind of executive. I was more of a
scorched earth get it done kind of
person.
Okay. So no changes over the last 15
years. That's good to know. They made
they made an enormous mistake, but then
they admitted it about a year after I
left. They said this was the single
sucks at
Explain in plain English why HTML 5
rappers versus native apps.
I can't cuz it's [ __ ]
Okay, great. Uh I can explain it. So
like native apps are was obvious
in 2010
obvious
and the only the only reason
to use HTML was as an endound for
different carriers and for different
ecosystems that were trying to charge us
a toll. So in 2010, I went to Mobile
World Congress and I took a group of my
most talented developers and we built an
entire replica of Facebook that we
called Facebook zero which was only
available via URL and we launched it at
Mobile World Congress and we did it and
I announced it there because if you went
to India as an example, all of the folks
there would try to charge us a tax but
if you could navigate through the
browser you wouldn't have to pay it.
Right? So that was a good example of
what to do in a developing market when
people were toll taking. But the real
solution was to build an extremely
integrated app from the software all the
way to the hardware. And the only way to
do that was as a native application. And
that has tremendous applications to
today. But just to finish on yesterday,
my proposition was full phone, full
stack, full app, all of this other HTML
stuff should only be as a side thing
that we do in markets where they try to
make it difficult for us. Instead, it
became politicized and it became a big
bet on HTML 5, which I thought was
absolutely stupid and unjustifiable.
And that was also when I said, "Okay,
well, this phone's not going to happen,
so let me leave." And a year later, I
think Mark, to his credit, said, "This
was really stupid." And ripped all the
HTML 5 stuff apart, went native, and the
rest is history. So, let's fast forward
to today. Yeah, there it is. Biggest
mistake was betting too much. It was It
was an And that was again, I'll just say
it. people politicizing what should have
been an obvious technical decision.
Okay,
the other piece to that just to add to
it was it was also a religious decision
then people liked the open standards of
HTML 5.
certain developers who felt like we have
to support openly stupid people thought
that. Only stupid nontechnical people
thought that. It was stupid. It was
obvious. You'd have to be a [ __ ]
[ __ ] And there were [ __ ] morons at
the executive team that advocated for
this. Anyways, we were right, they were
wrong, and he was fine. Okay, fast
forward to the where are we today? It's
the exact same story playing out. Now,
what do I mean? You have to look very
carefully at Microsoft's deal with Open
AI. Why? Because what you see is the
compounding of secrets. There are
secrets in the training layer. There are
secrets in the model layer. There are
secrets in how these things are tightly
coupled to infrastructure and compute.
And what we have to remember is what
Open AI got from Microsoft was an
extremely competent partner that built
an enormous Azure compute infrastructure
to train everything from chat GPT all
the way up to the 03 model everything.
Why is that important? Because you start
to figure out these tricks. How do you
really optimize these models to be
extremely performant? And now if you
look at all of the other models, they've
also had some level of that advantage.
So if you look at Deep Seek, what did
they do? Well, we don't know. But what
we have been told is that there's very
tight coupling to hardware. If you look
at what XAI is doing, I think what you
can bet is that there's an extremely
tight coupling to hardware and
infrastructure and compute. If you look
at what Facebook is doing, they
generically train on Nvidia and they
launch it in the open source. So I think
that what they need to do is more of the
open AI, more of the Google playbook.
Look at Google. Google's Gemini models
are extremely tightly coupled to TPU and
it enables and unlocks an entire stack
of secrets and capability that then get
manifested in model quality.
So I think the first thing that Mark has
to do if I were him is start to chip
away at all of the sets of secrets. So
what secrets do you get from Alexander
Wang and scale? It's what are the
labeling techniques that allow these
models to be more and more performant?
What labeling techniques are used in the
reasoning models? What labeling
techniques are used in more traditional
LLMs? It is clear that Llama doesn't
know this. Meta doesn't know this that
well because their model quality is meh.
So now what you get is that set of
secrets. So what do you get from Nat
Freeman and Daniel Gross? You get what
are the apps doing? How are they
approaching writing agents? These
agentic tips and tricks that make
usability and value more obvious.
But then what's missing? I think the
thing that's missing is the
infrastructure and compute set of
secrets. I think it's insufficient to
buy stuff off the shelf from Nvidia and
expect these models to fundamentally
compete. So I think if I were a betting
man, he's bought the training secrets,
he's bought the app secrets, and now he
has to buy some infrastructure and
compute hardware secrets. you put it
together and he's got a pretty good
strategy here.
And also just to add to that, Shimothnat
and Daniel have invested in a lot of AI
companies and those companies are have
secrets of their own. Yeah. And those
are and actually I think they have some
along the full stack.
Freeberg, your thoughts on this strategy
as described by Thomas and Shimoth and
just the data we're seeing on the
playing field aggressive acquisition of
talent and companies.
I don't know if I have much to add here.
Okay, one additional point Shimoth by
the way that you mentioned if we look at
the winners right in models of the past
12 months anthropic the same right
they've been very um kind of deliberate
and have explained how TPUs right
they've been a big user of them how it's
helped define their training models so I
think you're 100% right if we look at
the models that have really performed
it's ones that have that that quote
secret as you mentioned
when I first started 8090 a year ago one
of the key bets I made which was a
mistake and we unw wound the bet. But
the first bet that I made was can we
build a transpiler, which is to say, can
you take a CUDA workload and then can
you redirect it away from Nvidia
to different hardware? And basically
what I learned in that process are all
of the attention mechanisms that are
built into transformers
that really differentiate
how good the models are need to
literally be handtuned for every single
target of silicon that you have. So when
Amazon just kind of wakes up and says,
"Here's this chip," it means nothing
unless you can incentivize somebody to
build to it. But the opposite is also
true. If you have a model and you just
run it generically, you're not going to
get the gains and it's not going to be
as special as if you have a dedicated
infrastructure and compute architecture
and say we're going to tightly couple
these. It's been clear that OpenAI has
had that, Anthropic has had that, Google
has had that, Deepseek has had that. And
I think Meta needs to do that.
Otherwise, they're always going to be
floundering on their back heel.
One quick misnomer, I think, you know,
when people hear labeling, they kind of
assume a photo of a dog and someone says
this is a dog, right? I mean, that's
definitely how it started, but if you
look at sales business, it's completely
more from that. So, you could actually
label the problem. So for example in in
simple terms 2 plus 2 equals 4 is
actually um a reasoning data set right.
So you got to think of labeling not just
in the simple terms of you know this
image but of massive data sets of of
outcomes and that's what's kind of
really used to tr uh train these
reasoning models. Um,
but I think there's another
Yeah, there's another story here, guys,
in my opinion,
and it's the performance of the Mac 7,
right? And I I'm going to have to check
with my data science team, but I'm
wondering if we're this is the year
where we've seen the greatest divergence
amongst the Mac 7, right? So if you look
at the Mac 7 and if I just gave you
right this performance you can see okay
so Meta's up 18 Google's down Nvidia's
up 8 Tesla down 20 Apple down 21 Amazon
down three and Microsoft is plus 13
right so it's kind of interesting in a
market that you know historically over
the past few years where we feel the Mac
7 have been truly correlated now the
market is saying wait hold on we might
start to see diverging performance. What
I read from that in in in one element is
the market's starting to try and sort
out who are going to be the winners and
losers. Who's well positioned versus
maybe falling behind, right? So, I think
we're going to start to see some
divergent performance from the Max 7. I
think it's going to reward not
Can you put that back up there for a
second? I mean, I think that's so
interesting because if you look at the
conditions on the field today,
you know, Google's down 8%. But again, I
would tell you as a user,
Gemini models are exceptional.
Like absolutely just baron exceptional.
I think Anthropic is incredible for
Codegen. Incredible.
What I see is every single company on
this list that isn't Nvidia
baking and rolling their own silicon.
Yet Nvidia is up and the rest are down.
I told you that I spent time last week
at Tesla. I would not be sleeping on
this business. I think that it is yet
again back into the land of being
misunderstood.
The only one that I understand why it's
down this much is Apple because it's not
clear that they're even baking something
in private. There's nothing public.
There's nothing private. It just seems
like they're transitioning into being a
cash cow and getting into sort of that
cash harvesting mode. But it's almost
weird that the price action is what it
is because I would have thought that
Google would be up. Meta would maybe be
a little flattish to down. Nvidia is up,
but maybe it could be down. Tesla's
down, but it should probably be up.
Amazon's basically break even and Apple
is down. And I think that kind of makes
sense. That's sort of how I read this
table.
Yeah. I mean, what I love Chimoth, by
the way, on that is that like now
there's debates, right? And and you can
argue whether you know you agree with
Chimath or whether you don't. spending
20 billion cuz he's cuz he's not afraid.
Correct.
Yeah. No, let's pull the chart up again
here. By the way, I think this is an
interesting way to
only the only reason Microsoft is not on
this list is because of the limitation
of the DOSS era interface of the
Bloomberg terminal where it will only
allow you to compare six charts and not
seven.
But we know that Microsoft is up 13.
Q perplexity. Yeah.
Yeah.
So, you know, when you also when you
look at these, there are some
extenduating circumstances here like
Tesla's car sales are down. All car
sales are down. And I think that's the
piece that maybe isn't being accounted
for here and they're in a transitional
period. Apple obviously
Yeah.
There's a lot of regulatory overhead. So
Tesla losing solar and EV tax credits.
Yes.
Apple Apple being told to onshore and
stop buying from China. So their supply
chains being disrupted because of
tariffs. those two companies in
particular are far more affected than
the rest and even Amazon you know
there's been some conversation about
tariff effect on Amazon but obviously
that's offset with some of the benefits
they've been realizing and promoting as
Jasse spoke in his letter this week uh
from AI so I think that there's a
variation here that's probably a little
bit more Thomas kind of tuned to
these conditions that aren't necessarily
call it natural market forces but are
kind of influence influenced market
forces associated with the the new
administration and some of the policy
choices that are being made.
If we were looking at those number one
and number two, which one do you think
gets to AGI first, Thomas? Well, wait,
hold on. By the way, the other thing you
should note, Jason, which I find really
interesting is nobody talks about AGI
anymore. If you listen to the language
of all the companies, it's all super
intelligence, which is a much more
achievable goal because it's defined as
being, you know, multiples more
intelligent than a human being. But I
think you're I think if you actually
did a search for the number of times AGI
is being said today. It's meaningfully
less because I think people have
realized that that's not in the offing.
Yeah. By the way, another lens chamat
that I think about on these is who
controls their own destiny of these
seven companies in AI,
right? And I would argue
most I would argue
Tesla does Nvidia
and then it's kind of interesting,
right? Neither Amazon doesn't have its
own foundation model, right? They're
kind of dependent on others, right?
Microsoft
49% does right because of this kind of
relationship they have with open AI it's
both you know uh they they own a big
share but they don't control it so
there's kind of interesting and then
maybe 6 months ago we would have said
well Meta absolutely does maybe Zuck's
trying to question that a little bit and
you know it's it's fun in my opinion to
kind of bring different lenses to this
list right there's the regulatory one
that Friedberg was just talking about I
kind of think about if I towards the co.
Do I control my own destiny in this
market? Right? And I expect these
companies are not going to want to be
dependent on others and are going to at
least want to say no. I'm going to
control my own destiny whether I win or
lose. Who's your number one? Who's your
number two? If you had to could only bet
on two here to achieve super
intelligence AGI, let's just say win the
AI re win the AI uh big prize. The big
prize super intelligence AGI, you know,
in the midterm, five years. Five years
from now, we're sitting here. Thomas,
give me your number one. Give me your
number two.
Look, I I think to me number one, I I
still think Nvidia, right? I don't see
the GPU kind of getting displaced. I see
additional architectures kind of coming
on board, right? And growing the market,
but um at the end of the day, all roads
still lead to the GPU for all of these
models. So, I would kind of still put um
kind of Nvidia on that. My number two,
more of a dark horse, but I I would pick
Tesla.
I do think it has the most potential for
vertical integration right from all the
way the silicon to the model to actually
the hardware right that might become
super important not just in cars but in
Optimus so Nvidia 1 Tesla is my dark
horse
wow stunning chimoth who's your number
one and number two in the midterm 5
years from now we're sitting here on
allin episode 700
Tesla's one and Google's two and the
reason is because they are the closest
to having that vertically integrated
stack that I spoke about. I think that
Tesla has the best vision models. Now
with XAI, they'll have one of the best
LLMs and reasoning models and they'll be
able to eventually stick that on Dojo.
And then all of that will be in all of
the physical AI that you will interact
with in your daily life, whether it's a
robot or whether it's a car or whether
it's a robo taxi. So that's number one.
And then number two, for many of the
same reasons, I think Google, because
you'll have the Gemini family of models,
which just absolutely kickass like V3,
which we haven't really spoke about, is
going to destroy Hollywood like in the
next year. Like Hollywood is done, I
think,
but they're landing model after model.
They have the TPU, and the next
generation TPU, I think, is exceptional.
They're baking quantum and then they
have an entire funnel of billions of
people that they can direct experiences
to. So Tesla one, Google 2.
Chimath, quick followup on that. I'm
curious on Google. This is the because I
I oscillate a lot on this particular
name. Can Google win if search declines?
Yes. And I think that what probably has
to happen is bear with me when I say
this, but if you had to boil down
Google's economic northstar metric,
right? not the value northstar, the
economic northstar metric would be price
per click
and I do think that Google is extremely
well positioned to pivot that to price
per token and I think that they have
some emergent classes of physical AI but
they have the largest pool of people
where they can generate a price per
token value framework through YouTube
through Gmail through workspace I think
through search but probably it's a
different kind of model. It just
requires them to rip the band-aid off at
some point. But yeah, I think Google can
do it.
I'm going to go with you, Chimath. I'm
one uh my one and two are either Google
uh or Elon. And I I'll just say Elon
because I uh like you, I spent a day up
at um XAI and I saw what a magnet for
talent he is. I got to sit in some
meetings and just he was interviewing
people and he was working with that
talent. 8:00 at night, there's a lot of
people there on a Saturday grinding it
out. It was nuts. I first went to XAI
in the 15 minutes that I was in the
parking lot finishing a call, the kinds
of people that were walking in and out
of there, you could tell they were big
brains.
Yeah.
I don't know how, you know what I mean?
Like from every walk of life, they all
just looked much smarter than the rest
of us. Yeah.
It some of them were like chain smoking
cigarettes and just like stressed out.
It was crazy.
I hit a couple of zins. I'll be totally
honest. Um, but the reason I say Elon
versus Google is I think Elon's in a
unique position. And I don't have any
insider information here and and I
haven't talked about this or I'm not
back channeling from Elon lest anybody
aggregate this. I think what Colossus
has done and what Tesla has done both of
these things Tesla with their own stack
of hardware to your point Chamoth
hardware plus software plus the user
application of FSD and Optimus. Then you
put that together with the data the
real-time data of X formerly known as
Twitter plus um you know what he's
building with XAI and obviously those
two companies merged. I think Tesla
board, XAI board have to get together,
put those two companies together.
One's worth a trillion, one's worth 100
billion. Put them and just have all that
brain power going in one direction as
opposed to Elon test switching between
the two. You do that, I think he wins
number one. You don't do that, I think
he either gets one or two and then I
think Google
um is going to have a better search
product. Thomas, I think it's a really
important point. Do they lose search
share? Doesn't matter. What I think
matters is are their ads more effective?
Is their ad network more effective? And
I think based on what they know on you
from your chat searches and your
discussions and what they analyze in
your email, just analyzing your Gmail
and your surfing behavior and Chrome if
they get to keep it, your Android phone
if you use it, your YouTube list and
what you how when you drop off allin and
when you start listening to another
podcast, whatever it is, all that data,
all that data is going to lead to an ad
network that performs so much better
that even if they lose search hair,
their ad network is going to continue to
grow. and I think it will increase in
velocity. So those are the my top two.
Freeberg, I'm curious from your
position.
Which one you think is number one and
number two? I saved you for last because
you know what we do here? We save the
best for last. Freeboard, go ahead.
I think there's a difference in how I
would kind of lump them. I I think that
Tesla probably has the it is the best
place to invest if you want to have a
shot at a massive new industry. So,
they've got a baseline business in in
obviously the automobiles, but I think
this humanoid robot opportunity is
absolutely mind-blowingly ginormous. And
I don't think that there's a better
company on Earth positioned to execute
against this humanoid robotics
opportunity than Tesla. So, you know,
it's sort of like I would call it a low
probability, high upside sort of call
option embedded within that business.
And obviously you're paying a premium
for that because it is still a very
healthy premium you pay for that
business. I think Nvidia to Thomas's
point I think the common thesis is it is
the most protected. The durability of
the business is there. But I would argue
that there's actually a low probability
but very high severity risk to Nvidia in
China. There was just a demonstration
last month of a 1 nanometer
semiconductor manufacturing process out
of China. I think the more that we
continue to try and isolate China from a
policy perspective, the more we are
emboldening investment in China, meaning
from the government, from private
industry into China to create
alternatives to the chip stack where the
United States companies, particularly
Nvidia, have emote today. So, I do think
that there's going to be an emergent
competitive threat coming out of China
to Nvidia. And just like we were knocked
over by DeepSeek, I think we will be
knocked over by some semiconductor
manufacturing processes um coming out of
China in the near term. But the overall
kind of by the way Dave just on that
point I think Sax's work on the
diffusion rule
just generally I don't think has kind of
gotten enough attention in the
rescending of the diffusion rule
which essentially handicapped our
ability to even arm our allies right
with our semiduct with our semiconductor
technology um in my opinion was kind of
a milestone and very important moment um
to to try and offset exactly what you
were just describing. That's exactly
right. I mean, there there there was a
report a few months ago and I mentioned
it on the show or maybe I didn't or
maybe I sent it to Sax and we talked
about it offline. I I can't remember but
it was about a $40 billion investment
being made in developing competitive
semiconductor manufacturing full stack
solutions out of China. So I I do think
that the lithography IP moat is being
crossed in China. I do think that China
is developing actually new technology
for uh DUV and EUV systems. I I do think
that there's a risk uh to Nvidia's core.
Now look, Nvidia is such a durable
business. There's great modes, great
advantages, but we're creating every
incentive for an alternative to Nvidia
to emerge from China. And then my my
third kind of categorization would be
what's the portfolio uh solution. I
think that's Google. I think that
there's a diversification of high beta
bets inside of Google of any one of
which could have call it a trillion
dollar market cap outcome ranging from
Whimo to quantum computing to the
biologics work that Demis is working on
out of um isomorphic. Uh there's a
number of things that do not get a lot
of attention at Google. So yes, there's
a there's a core business that that may
be at risk, Thomas, but I think that
there's a a portfolio of options you get
at Google and you just need any one of
them to hit to kind of make up for the
loss. But I do think also Sundar in my
interview with him, which we put out a
couple of weeks ago, is very thoughtful
about where search evolves to and he is
being, I think, reasonably aggressive in
in trying to evolve the search product
architecture to meet the market, to meet
the consumer. I do give him credit for
that. So Google would be in a good place
for me as an overall kind of pick in
that set of options.
So just to be clear, Nvidia 1, Google 2
or Nvidia Tesla?
Like I said, I think in terms of like
having the right sharp ratio is how I
would think about it. The alpha and the
beta adjusted returns, I would put
Google number one. I would probably put
Tesla. Uh Tesla's valuation, I think,
already has a premium associated with
those options. So I don't know.
Yeah. So I don't know if I would really
pay that premium. I think um
aside from the valuations, let's take
valuations out of it. Just the the game
here is who wins the AI prize 5 years.
That's how I understood it as well.
Yeah. So valuation irrelevant.
Valuation irrelevant. Who wins the AI
prize? One, you're saying Google. Two,
you're saying Tesla.
I think Google's in such a position. I I
mean, look, Demis uh Demis, I think, has
been fairly koi about where they are.
They obviously promote Gemini 2.5, but
there's a lot still coming.
And it's and and as Chimath pointed out,
it's not just LLMs. There's a pretty
sizable family of models including a a
lot of these um graph-based models that
are being used in really novel
applications that no one else is even
close to, no one spending time on. I
mean, some of the weather forecasting,
it might seem small and trivial, but
it's a demonstration of Google's
competency in in core model development
that shows an understanding and a depth
of research and work that goes well
beyond LLM. So, I'm pretty bullish on
the depth of talent, the full stack.
Yeah. Yeah. And whatever they learn
there could apply to Gmail, could apply
to search, could apply to ads, could
apply to YouTube algorithm, right? It's
just goes up and down. Yeah.
Yeah. From a product perspective, I do
think you see this kind of multi-model
emergence that that we're now seeing
that no one talks about the single model
that sits behind the application. There
are multiple models that work together.
And obviously this agentic architecture
unlocks another layer of not just kind
of solutions to complexity.
Sure. And so there's there's quite a lot
I think that's emergent here um that
Google will start to kind of benefit
from uh in the year ahead. I mean, for
those of us, you know, who love tech,
right? If we if we step back for a
minute, I really feel like to use the
analogy of this podcast, like we are now
at the WSL World Series of Poker, right?
We got seven companies around the table.
The stacks are trillion in size, right?
And all of us are going to get a front
row seat to see what happens over the
next 5 years. I mean, and on top of
that, we're going to get to analyze, bet
ourselves on who we think's going to
win. We know there's some other
companies that are pushing to get at
that table, right, with some sharp
elbows. I mean, what a time to be doing
what we're doing.
I don't know if I love the analogy
because I don't think first of all, it's
a zero sum game where there's this x
number of chips and someone ends up with
all the chips. I do think you could see
as an example, just talking about the
scenarios we we just described, Tesla
developing an extraordinary humanoid
robot business that's worth a trillion
dollars. Google building, you know, to
Chimath's point, a media empire based on
generative AI in media and then, you
know, Nvidia building an entirely new
chip stack that everyone's participating
in. So, all of them in an ecosystem
based way could could be major winners
here.
Yeah, you're right. I I didn't mean it
in the zero sum nature of it. I meant it
more in the in the stakes, right? And
and
and there's a lot of hands to be I like
the analogy because there's a lot of
hands to be played and there is a price
pool, right? And and you could have
three or four people at that table. One
thing I just want to point out here is
just speaking of regime change. What is
going on at Apple? Like they Siri was
just the early idea of an AI agent. It's
just totally disgrat. It's disgusting.
It doesn't work. It's embarrassing. And
then their biggest developer conference,
they're
redoing the UI like time for regime
change at at at Apple. No, this has
happened many many many times in many
industries before which is that
companies that were stalwart
organizations
transition themselves from being a
growth business to being a cash cow and
these are well doumented transitions and
it requires an extremely brutal reset if
you want to shake that up. Yes,
I think that the same thing that I think
you have to respect Apple for, which is
stability, the
duration of some of their best, longest
serving executives are there for 20 and
30 years. On the scale of innovation,
it's a horrible thing. And the reason is
that we all just get old. Our skill sets
become rusty and we don't have the
energy or the capacity to think about
what the future actually looks like
because we are not living it. And then
what happens is you task those decisions
to people that you try to hire. But you
know, you saw it in the clip with Sam.
Even in all of that crazy recruiting
chaos that's happening right now for
these brilliant machine learning and AI
people, maybe that's a fight between
OpenAI,
Meta, and maybe Google.
But what you don't hear is Apple. So
who's Apple getting? I have to think
that Apple is not getting any of those
people. So by the time you end up at
Apple, it's just a different caliber of
person.
That is true. and they're living inside
of a cash cow organization that's going
to optimize for don't make mistakes,
right?
But that's h it's happened to HP. It's
happened to Lotus. It's happened to
Intel. It's happened to General
Electric. It's happened to companies.
It's just and it's happening to Apple.
So, we should just not sweat it and move
on.
I don't know. Thomas, what are your
thoughts? I mean, it's kind of shocking
with all that cash and they don't
acquire anything. They had project Titan
$10 billion to build their own car and
they just shut it down. Imagine if they
kept going with that. You think regime
change time? Maybe Tim Cook retires and
put somebody who's a product person in
charge of it or maybe they should merge
with Tesla and put Elon in charge of it
all. There just seems to be no new
products coming out of there. Like it's
absolutely
uh confounding that they're optimizing
for share buybacks and earnings per
share instead of having some amount of
that money go towards innovation and
acquiring companies. Biggest acquisition
is Beats. Give me a break. I mean it's
interesting right for me and I've
studied Apple basically my whole career
and it's kind of interesting right
because if you think about the their
defining
competitive advantage right was the
integration of hardware and software
that led to the beautiful MacBook that
we're all using it led to the iPhone and
right the fact that they were so coupled
between hardware and software the user
interface you know etc and I think it
directly led to them winning let's call
the the mobile era right but I back to
Chamas's point and I think the analogy
holds in AI they're the opposite right
they don't control I don't you know the
silicon they don't control the
underlying models um and so now they're
back to maybe you know using a
historical analogy the PC makers who
didn't control the OS
that's right
so I I think the good news for them is
look they still have a monopoly on users
they have three trillion of market cap
to kind of play with so I think it's way
too early to count them out. But I
think, you know, the market, let let's
posate, what's the most extreme thing
that they could do, right? Just for just
for intellectual sake, right? Uh buy
OpenAI for 500 billion. I'm just going
to put a crazy thing out there, right?
So, you think, okay, that's the most
extreme. Well, is it even that extreme?
And what would Apple's stock do that
day?
Go up.
That's my view, too. Right. I actually
think it would go up, not down, even if
they did something like that. So I do
think they need to be kind of
aggressive. I do think to your point I
think Freeberg, it is important that you
know all seven of these companies could
actually win and do well, right? That
that is a absolute
possibility. But I I would love to see
them be a little bit more aggressive. I
mean you guys remember when Steve Jobs
bought Finger Works, right? It was this
tiny acquisition. They made this little
trackpad that you could use your fingers
on. No one figured out why they did this
and then in turn into multi-touch and
scrolling, right? So, I think it's it's
going to be fascinating to see what they
do.
Thomas, that was a great question I was
about to ask. If Apple could do one
thing, they could do one internal
project or buy one external company.
Maybe we could do both around the horn.
What would we advise them to do? My
number one is build a humanoid robot.
Like, how does Apple not have a humanoid
robot? That seems like that's obviously
the next giant consumer market is having
Optimus or Figure in your house.
Freeberg, I'm going to go to you first
since I went to you last last time. Is
there a product that they could do that
they could build that they would be
uniquely suited to that would turn this
all around? If you could pick it on
their road map, what would it be?
I do think there is. I do think they're
doing it and I do think they have a shot
at winning, which is this kind of
ambient AI assistant. I don't know about
you guys, I must own 30 friaking Apple
devices. Uh, I have many Apple computers
I use in different offices. I have
phones. I have many AirPods. I got
everything. Watches, everything. I'm
ubiquitous on the Apple platform. So,
I'm an easy transition into this if it
works. So, as everyone races to build
kind of the agentic AI assistant that uh
is sort of in my ear all the time or
available where I don't have to stare at
my freaking phone like this, um it is a
great unlock for humanity. It's a great
unlock as a consumer. it's feasible
technically and I'm sure Apple of
everyone that we've referenced today is
best suited to both access the consumer
design and engineer this solution in a
way that can be truly transformative. I
think it references a little bit what
Johnny IV and Sam Alman have been
talking uh about doing. But I do think
that this is exactly the direction Apple
is headed and I do think that they've
got a very great shot at at winning at
it. don't think they need to own the
full stack to be successful here.
Got it. Okay. So, we got Optimus, we got
the device you're talking about, this
ambient assistant is part Siri and part
maybe a pendant that records your
behavior in the world and gives you
feedback to it. And that's what they're
calling a puck perhaps that Johnny IV
has made or these pendants that record
everything. Thomas, what's your thought
on the one product they could create? to
that point. Um, it's interesting to
think that the AirPod business at Apple
is 3x Open's revenue base today.
That's right.
And that's just the AirPod business.
And by the way, let me let me just say
one thing about this. We all think about
devices in the context of a single
device being an assistant. I think if
there are more devices integrated into
our lives and the assistant is ethereal
and ubiquitous amongst the devices, it's
almost like uh the Star Trek Next
Generation. You walk in, you say, "Hey,
computer." And there's always a device
available that's doing things. There's
always a device observing, there's
always a device able to take care of
things for you. Whether it's in your
ear, whether it's your phone, whether
it's your watch, but basically these
devices all instead of acting
independently, they all know what you've
been asking or talking about with the
other devices. And so you could get in
your car and you could pick up, you
know, the conversation you were having,
you know, while you were sitting in your
office in front of your computer to do
work. And so the agent effectively is
almost like this ethereal ambient
assistant. So everywhere you go, the
agent is there.
They could even be in a candle lit bath
with you, Freedberg. They could be in
there.
They could Well, I mean, by the way,
think about also, you know, it it it
know having identity, so it knows who
you are, but I could be in your in your
home, Jal. Not that I would ever get
invited to your home, but let's say I
was there. Uh, you know, I could walk
into the the living room and there's
your puck and it starts talking to me
because it knows
who I am. And yeah, it's like it knows
me. Yeah.
Or you and I have a bath for two. You
and I could be a candidate for two
and it would know the when each of us
are fighting over what music we want to
play. The assistant will, you know, hear
out the debate playlist. Do you have a
uh a device before we go on to IPOs
here? Do you have a device or an angle
for Apple to go after if they were truly
ambitious? Or maybe they are and it's
just in stealth. What do you think? You
think it's the goggles, the glasses? You
think it's a pendant? You think it's
optimist? What do you think?
I don't think they have any chance of
anything.
Great. Love it. I would take the exact
opposite of what Freebrook says.
Look at this chart and I'll tell you
why.
Okay, here we go.
This chart is not This chart is not a
strategy. So, this is a chart of Apple's
revenue and what you see is iPhone has
completely stalled out. And so to
Thomas's point, where do you make money?
You make money in other hardware. This
is not a strategy of success. This is a
strategy of inefficiency.
I lost my AirPods. I need to buy a new
pair. Oh, the cables changed. I need to
buy a bunch of those. This and that. And
a this and that strategy is not a
strategy. It's a tactical play for
revenue optimization in the short term.
A company that focuses on this kind of
revenue growth is not capable of
creating something that's exceptionally
unexpected.
That will come from a new company who
has no ties to the past, has nostalgia
on the fact that we're going to swap out
the connector type and you know book
another billion dollars. The what Thomas
said is an indictment actually about
their ability to do it. When your
AirPods business is two or three times
bigger than Open AI, what there is
internally when you try to have a
strategy meeting about what to do is
derision about Open AI because you're
like that's small and even our AirPods
business is three times big. That's what
some smartass MBA will say in that
meeting and it'll shut the meeting down.
So, how do you expect that culture to
then all of a sudden get their act
together? I think it's exceptionally
hard. And here's the clip on Q. Play the
clip, Nick. It's a great point. Here's
the clip.
I'm Apple nostalgic.
Me, too. Bring Steve Jobs back. Watch
this lunacy.
You probably saw that Johnny IV is
linked up with Open AI to create some
sort of future AI device.
Yeah, I don't know what that is.
I don't either. Yeah.
Is this a space that Apple's looking at?
Is this a space that goes beyond what
you have in the current lineup of
devices? Something that is more
personal? Maybe you wear it? Glasses.
I I think I mean I think we have some
extremely personal wearable devices. If
you want something that's uh aware of
your environment with with audio, I
think you're you're wearing one right
now on on your wrist. Um if you want
something that you can capture the
environment with and see and also
receive visual content, you might just
have one in your pocket right now. Um
are there other form factors that can
make sense to AI? Uh sure. But uh pretty
hard to beat something that's uh with
you all the time and glancable or you
know provides a nice screen that you can
interact with. Um so uh yeah I I don't
know what they're working on.
What do you think Jimoth?
Again I think I want to be very clear
about what I'm saying. That is a very
competent Craig Federi very very
competent executive
and whoever the person beside him is
that guy's I'm going to assume competent
as well. They're competent at making
money
the way that they've made money for the
last 17 years with no meaningful
disturbance.
And I think it's just something to
appreciate that after 17 years of
unmitigated linear success, it's very
difficult to retool yourself. It's like
asking Michael Jordan to go and all of a
sudden become an all-star baseball. It
doesn't work.
And so I think I I think it's okay
though, this is my point. It's okay,
guys, to have creative destruction of
companies. Like there was probably a
version of us blathering on about HP and
being nostalgic about the transistor
radio that they made and the, you know,
HP12B calculator that they made and oh
my god, why can't they figure their [ __ ]
out and where are we today? HP doesn't
even exist. It's okay. I mean, just
Thomas, the fact that they launched
Siri, they bought that company, and Siri
can't do anything other than like an
alarm, can barely play a song, it barely
can do directions. I I I mean,
literally, we're in year like 27 of
Siri, and it can't do anything. And then
I have the the Google and Gro voice, and
when I turn that on, it does whatever I
want. It will load on my Pixel. It loads
other applications, fires it off, does
specific tasks in it. It's absolutely
descriat
on your Pixel.
I have a Pixel when I when I flip open
my Pixel.
I have
to I have the Pixel 9, Chimath. It's the
Anaconda of smartphones. Pixel 9
foldable.
Got it.
It's the greatest assistant ever. It's
what Siri. It's what Steve Jobs showed
Siri. I had you at nine.
He had me at Anaconda. Yeah,
I had you at 9 in. And we can all
aspire. Maybe get Roman extra get that
extra inch. Thomas, go ahead.
Chamath, I would argue to you that I
think this management team has done it
once and it's in the transition of their
gross profit base, which doesn't show in
the chart that you just highlighted, but
was something that I kind of lived as an
analyst covering the stock for a long
time where if you remember over a decade
ago, 90 plus% of their gross profit was
a onetime hardware sale on the iPhone.
And no one thought that they would ever
be able to get away from the drug of
selling that one iPhone unit, right? And
cut to, you know, over a decade later,
it's 40%. Right? And I don't think they
get enough credit for actually
transitioning from hardware to a
recurring gross profit base. But look,
you might argue that that was an easier
pivot and challenge than what they're
going to face. And so, let's see whether
they can do it.
The other thing guys I wonder about um
let's I know we want to talk about IPOs
but I do wonder whether Zuck buying
scale for 15 billion gives air cover for
other companies to really start being
aggressive right and and to me as we
think about circle and coreweave two
companies that have gone IPO recently
it's it's kind of amazing kind of
numerically that the charts are almost
identical even you know on a dollar
basis on a share price, right? Because
to me, what it says, we were talking
about the dispersion of the Mac 7
before, right? Which are going to do
well, which are not. I expect we're
going to have a lot of opinions on this
over the next few years. And frankly,
they may change. We, you know, we may
think Apple one way today, it may change
in a month, right? But I do think the
market is starting to realize that there
is dispersion that AI might create some
all winners or some winners and then
some losers, right? and is starting to
think about, okay, how do I want to be
positioned for the next five years? What
are big open-ended growth opportunities?
And here comes two companies, one lever
to crypto, right, and the other lever to
AI. So, I don't think it's a surprise to
me. These things are intertwined.
You're 100% on because here's the thing,
the average profit margin of the S&P 493
is, drum roll please, 12%. The average
growth of the S&P 493 is, drum roll
please, single digits. So to your point,
why would you belong any of these 493
companies that may turn around and one
day just get decapitated by something
you don't even know that's getting
cooked up by a couple kids in a garage
using OpenAI or Grock or what have you.
It just makes a lot more sense when you
find investable companies in the big
themes of the future to at a minimum
hedge, right? be less long the past and
frankly make some bets about the future.
And I think that that's where you're
seeing these IPOs just absolutely rip.
What is a better comparison in my
opinion are the companies that are truly
levered to the future themes of AI and
crypto versus any of these IPOs that
have happened of companies that are not.
And I think what you see is there's a
dispersion there as well. And they are
being treated almost as similarly,
Jason, as the
S&P 493.
It's like, yeah, it's good. Yeah, it's
fine. They get some reasonable gains.
But if you're lever to any of those two
two trends, you're off to the races
because it's just so disruptive. People
don't want to be bag holding these old
legacy companies. We're already into our
next topic, which is IPOs and M&A. Lena
Khan is no longer in the building and
M&A is back on the menu as are IPOs as
Tom has pointed out. Three IPOs March
28th, June 5th and June 12th. Coreweave,
Circle and Chime. Obviously Coreweave up
4x after going public, $81 billion
market cap. Absolutely stunning. Circle
25x oversubscribed, 6x from its opening
price, $ 48 billion market cap. Chime,
that's a NEO bank like New Bank, which
is already public. that was up 40% uh in
its IPO price, but then it went down
20%, $12 billion market cap. On the
other side of the ledge, we have a ton
of M&A this year. So, when you look at
what's happening under the Trump
administration, look at what's actually
happening. The game on the field is
three major IPOs. Uh and then massive
amounts of billion dollar acquisitions.
Obviously, we talked about Google
acquiring Whiz 32 billion. Uh SoftBank
bought Emperor. I don't know what they
do, 6.5 billion. OpenAI bought two
companies, one for three billion, one
point for 6.5 billion. Developer
co-pilot, Windsurf 3 billion. Johnny
Ives IO making some sort of a puck or
hardware device. Data Bricks brought
Neon for a billion. Salesforce uh did an
$8 billion acquisition. And then
interesting, Door Dash bought two
companies. Uber made two smaller
acquisitions. There is a ton of activity
here. What does it say about the market,
David Friedberg, that we're seeing so
much M&A and these amazing IPOs coming
out all within the last 3 4 months.
Okay, so let me just follow up to a
comment Chimath made and ask Thomas his
view. I have a a theory and I haven't
looked empirically to see if it makes
sense. For most of the S&P 500, the
fundamental profit growth is pretty
anemic with the exception obviously of a
couple of the big tech outliers, the
MAG7 and a few others. But for for the
majority of the S&P, this is a pretty
kind of anemic environment relative to
the transitions that are underway in the
world fundamentally with with AI and
ancillary technology. So are the
institutional fund managers hungry for
access to some of these new you know
high growth offerings and they have been
held off because and just to kind of go
back I think it was around 2008 or so
public institutional fund managers
started to do crossover investing into
private equities and that scaled up and
scaled up and it it entered obviously a
stage where it was a heavy flurry a lot
of activity and a lot of crossover late
stage investing um you right until 2021
when things started to pop 2022 and
because they were overexposed
with their private equity portfolios
relative to their public equities they
came out of 2122 with the market
declining and they now had a higher
concentration of private equities than
they were supposed to have and so they
have been kept out of the market for the
last 3 or so years of the private market
and now is there kind of this pentup
hunger or pent-up demand for new
issuances for high growth tech issuance
Is is that what we're seeing? Is there
kind of this pent up demand because
they've had to stay out of the the
private market for 3 years? And if there
is, obviously it bodess well for
latestage growth startups that are
looking to go public because the demand
will be there. And I think the reports
were that the Chime IPO was like 18x
overs subscribed. I think you're right
and and something that you know I've
talked about with you guys and uh was a
was a big conversation at our at the
all-in summit last year was the health
of the uh private ecosystem right and we
talked about the concept of look if you
put a dollar in you need to get a dollar
out right and so I do think that we're
starting to see a healthier market where
we know a lot of dollars have gone in
but now we're starting to see some
dollars coming out so I think that's
both in M&A by the way and it's also in
IPOs So I think that's one element. But
I also think the second element which is
we're the tailwind of the mobile and SAS
era, right? And even if you look at the
SAS companies, we kind of put this
together in our deck when we were
preparing it for our conference um this
week. Chamath, I think you'll find this
interesting, right? If you look at SAS
in 2021,
the median growth rate for SAS companies
was 17% and a quarter of those were
growing over 25%. Mhm.
Okay.
If you look at SAS today, the growth
rate has been cut in half, 17% to 9%.
And only 5% of that cohort is now
growing above 25%. So I think Dave,
what's clearly happening, right, is
other sectors which were predominantly
seen to be growth are now slowing down,
right? So that's kind of one piece. So
the market can no longer just rely on
saying, "Oh, I'm just going to own the
Bessemer SAS index, right, for the next
decade and I'll do great." Because those
companies have really slowed down. And I
think it's starting to look forward and
think, okay, now over the next 5 to 10
years, what are the companies that can
compound at maybe 25% per year over that
time frame? And I think companies like
Cororeweave and Circle and Chime, by the
way, and others are going to kind of
fill that gap.
I um I really like this chart.
If I had to guess about what has changed
from 2021 to 2025
is that most companies have realized
that buying yet another
vertical software solution is not going
to help their business that it typically
adds bloat, it adds cost and it adds
people. And I think starting in 2023,
what people started to guess is at some
point in the near future, you're going
to have some AI way of rewriting all of
this vertical software. And I think
that's why it stopped growing. I don't
think this SAS market ever had the
return on equity that it was supposed
to. And I think so many companies have
woken up from this hangover saying
there's got to be a better way. It can't
always be yet another tool, yet another
program, yet another multi-year delay,
yet another price escalator. And I think
that that the jig is totally up for
software.
You're referring to the Salesforce and
the SAS category, Chimoth, and what
you're doing at 8090 specifically. Yeah.
Well, it's it's not just us, but like if
you look at anybody that's rebuilding
software,
it is so much easier to rebuild software
from scratch today. Like my team of 30
people can transact hundreds of millions
of dollars of work. Not because we are
so prolifically amazing, but frankly
because well, I think the team is good,
but honestly because the underlying tool
chain gives you a level of leverage. And
so if you rebuild the software
development life cycle using these
tools,
you can't help it but become much more
efficient and you can't help it but
deliver custom solutions that are
meaningfully cheaper. And I think Jason,
if you look at the entirety of the
software that runs the world, we're
going to rebuild it soup to nuts. all of
that
and the tool you're referring to just
for the audience is the AI co-pilots
that are making that are contributing 30
40% to code bases at Microsoft and
less less specifically that because
those are those are good for individual
people but the software development life
cycle is more the horizontal end to end
of making things got it
so what we do internally at 8090 is we
have an entire process that starts from
the PRD all the way out to the
functioning code and we use different
techniques at each step but what you get
is a 50 60 70% increase at each step
which then compounds.
And so you have the ability of a team
that would otherwise be able to service
tens of millions of dollars
be a team that can service hundreds of
millions and then a team that would
otherwise service hundreds can service
billions.
Let me ask you guys your response to
this theory. If there is going to be
this kind of accelerated
call it custom software rebuild of
business models and you take the S&P
493, do you think that we enter an era
where there is a similar dispersion as
we're talking about seeing in the MAG 7
with the S&P 493 where there are going
to be probably the biggest money-making
opportunities for investors that we've
seen in decades
between those that do adopt and do
rebuild using AI and those that don't
for 100 100%.
I had a call yesterday with one of the
largest private equity funds in the
world, hundreds of billions of dollars
under management and we're doing
something with them at 8090 with one of
their most important assets.
And when you're an owner of a business
and you can direct
specific change
and you can rip out
hundreds of millions of dollars of
software licenses and replace it with
tens of millions of dollars of highly
customized software.
It's an enormous lift to opex and
business model quality. So why doesn't
it happen more? The reason it doesn't
happen right now for this S&P 493 is
that the IT organizations inside all
companies
essentially speak a different language
than the CEO, the CFO, and the board. So
if the CEO, CFO, and the board of
directors of the S&P 493 speak English,
the IT organization speaks Mandarin
Chinese, and you get away with saying
all kinds of [ __ ] I'll give you an
example. I went to a CIO conference. one
person that I met an $18 billion a year
IT budget.
What the [ __ ] does that actually even
mean to spend $18 billion a year on it?
I'm not saying that this is a mag seven
company, guys. And when you take that
example and you multiply it by 50 and
100 and 493 examples of people spending
money, there's an entire cartel of
influence that's been built in software
that's going to get undone because
you're not going to be able to justify
it. Free. Absolutely correct. And the
response from the SAS industry is
changing from the per seat model as the
number of employees at these companies
continues to get lowered. Obviously
Microsoft a lot of layoffs. Andy Jasse
talking about layoffs. They're moving
from the per seat model. They're not
taking this uh laying down. Uh they know
that people are going to make custom
software. So what they're doing is
they're moving to a consumption model.
So you're seeing people charge per call,
per customer support call, etc.
And well, it's I'll tell you why it
doesn't work.
They're working in combination. Hold on,
hold on, let me finish. The other thing
they're doing is they're dramatically
lowering the number of people and the
developers they have on their team. And
then a lot of what's happening in the
background is the third piece they're
doing is they're starting to uh do
rollups and people are starting to talk
about how can we take you know 20 of
these SAS companies lower them just like
you're doing to compete your thought
playbook. Well, I just wanted to comment
on this like consumption based pricing.
It doesn't work. And what I mean is you
can have some adoption in the short
term. The best example is Snowflake, but
in the long term it destroys your
business. And the reason is because you
don't know which data is valuable and
you're not going to put up with a
variable business model that increases
more and more cost because you need to
trap everything. And so what happens is
all of these other companies develop
around you. People go back to Postpress,
people go to Superbase, they find all of
these ways of saying snowflake makes no
sense. And the reason is because in this
world, nobody's going to pay consumption
because you're like, how do you expect
me to, you know, hold and store and pay
for terabytes and terabytes potentially
a day of data? It's not sustainable.
We'll see if intercom, Salesforce,
HubSpot, and we see if all of those
people start Slack start losing their
customer base or if they lower their
pricing to make it just too easy to keep
those systems in. Thomas, your thoughts?
Yeah, so two quick thoughts. Uh, number
one, Chimath, to put a kind of a
mathematical frame on this, right? We
know that Anthropic is kind of the level
zero of code generation. They're they're
doing incredibly well powering companies
like Cursor, right? I think and this is
order of magnitude correct that
Enthropic in Q1 added 70% of the net new
ARR in the SAS industry right defined by
public SAS companies right so let's just
think that the company in AI that is
most powering the disruption of SAS
added 3/4 of the net new of the entire
industry right so that's kind of point
number one
I think Freedberg point number two I
think what we're seeing in the Max 7
right where we're starting to have
debates about who's well positioned and
who isn't who's going to win and who
isn't, right? Is actually, as it was in
the past 5 years, going to be a broader
lens into the S&P 493. I think inside of
boardrooms, inside of every investment
committee, you're going to see the exact
same conversations that we've been
having about the MAX 7, right? Who who's
well positioned, who can win, what are
the management teams maybe like Zuck
that are being aggressive and bold and
capturing the opportunity, and which are
the ones that are not. So for me as a
stock picker, right, I think over the
next 5 years, I couldn't think of a more
interesting time where we're actually
going to see dispersion between winners
and losers. And do you think that these
rollup models make sense? So you've
probably heard uh and I don't know if
you guys have considered this, but
obviously some fund managers are putting
together pools of capital to go out and
buy businesses that they can then apply
their knowhow. They're bring in smart
people in AI to then create a category
killer and go after that market. And are
you guys participating in that? And how
do you kind of view that opportunity?
Are all the public companies basically
too mature or are some of them going to
kind of go after this type this model as
well?
It goes back to whether you can attract
the talent to go and do these things. My
advice to this large private equity firm
is you can probably try to stand up your
own AI org, but I suspect you're going
to get the person that didn't get an
OpenAI offer, didn't get a Meta offer,
didn't get a Google offer, didn't get an
8090 offer, then didn't get an Apple
offer, and then that's the person you'll
hire. How good that person will be, who
the hell knows? I think the problem is
that even if you take some of these kind
of
meh industries and roll them all up, you
ultimately have to find a buyer who
wants to own that business after you. So
the question is like if you were to buy
a bunch of accounting firms
or law firms or IT services firms and
you do an incredible job,
who wants to buy that in seven years?
Meaning if you talk to like if you went
to the OpenAI demo day, there was this
really interesting chart where Andre
Karpathy talked about integrating Google
login into
one of his apps. I think it was the his
menu gen app. And the comment he made
which profoundly hit me is like why am I
doing any of this? Why isn't this just
one click behind the scenes? And you
could take that generalization and apply
it to all of IT services. Why does any
of that exist? Why isn't it all one
click? And eventually if these agents
become smart enough, the fear that I
have is that there is no terminal buyer
for many of these companies.
Mhm. But they could still be public
chimat. I mean they could they could
trade at some multiple of cash flow and
you're basically arbiting the cash flow.
But I'm not talking about the private
equity trade. I'm actually talking about
the public equity trade. If you look at
the 493 companies,
those are better positioned. I think
like instead of an IT rollup, I think
what you could do is probably sort like
here's what I would do. I would take the
493 and the filter that I would apply is
what offline assets do they have? What
online assets do they have? What
percentage of those assets are
defensible and unique and exist in a
postAI world? And what percentage of
those assets disappear in a post AI
world? And I think where I would end up
is I'd like own a specialty chemicals
company or something, you know, like
you're still gonna need lubricants and
stuff and you can find some way to make
it, but if you're like a
You need lubricants. Sorry. Go ahead.
You know, I love the lubricants,
but no dy. No, Diddy.
But, uh, baby oil making, you know, like
five by the crate.
Timoth, do you want to talk about your
spack uh tweet?
Uhoh. You know the market's back. Can we
see this much?
Can you play the siren? Can you play the
siren?
Well, as with all my tweets,
like a combo, like a combo beach party,
as with all my tweets, it starts when
Look here, here's what X is an
incredible platform. I use it for
Pull up the tweet thing. Pull up the
tweet.
I use it for a lot of things, but
your villain phase right now, man. You
full super villain. It's so great.
The retweet is more important.
Yeah, I love that quote retweet. Here we
go. Here's the tweet. Chimamoth says,
"Incredible that almost 58,000 people
voted in his tweet if he should launch a
new spa." So, uh, give the people what
they want, Chimamoth, or what?
Well, I first I first started this
because I when I use X sometimes to to
just to like sound off because it
d-stresses me during the day.
Okay.
I like I'll troll people or whatever.
And then I just did this
and I was so impressed that 58,000
people voted. But really what happened
was I had a lot of very smart money
people on Wall Street and some crypto
folks call me that I respect and and
basically what they said is like it
would be really good if you did it. So I
don't know if I'm going to do it but I'm
heavily leaning towards doing it.
Well the argument to do it is you
learned a lot since last time. There's a
lot of inventory there. You've got a lot
of access to pre-market companies. I
think what people need to understand is
when you're doing spaxs and correct me
if I'm wrong here.
Here's what here's what I'll say Jason.
This poll and this community note will
be in every single document I do. Nobody
that is listening to this should
participate in this.
This is going to be for me and a handful
of, you know, advanced large pools of
money. You should stay as far away as
possible.
Whatever I do next,
don't participate in back. That's that's
the rule here.
Stay on the sideline. Do something else.
Don't come in the arena cuz we're trying
things. Timoth, don't you have enough
going on? Like, why would you sp Why
would you do this when you have fate
loves irony? Fate loves
loves irony, bro. Fate loves
Absolutely. This will be hilarious. It
would be the greatest IPO of all time.
If the poll was yes, I'd be like, "Oh
[ __ ] this is the last thing I need."
All in spa. Let's go.
Thomas commentary.
Thomas, are you going to buy the all-in
spack? What's going on?
The spa market coming back.
I'm open to all great companies coming
to the public market.
Love it. Love it. I mean, but So Thomas,
can I ask you a question? Like tell us
about the state of liquidity and
actually about IPOs and spaxs in
general. Like where's your where's your
temperature on it? Just give us a read
on what you think.
I mean look, I I think we're getting
real world data, Chimath, right? Like in
real time. Um not just from kind of
higher visibility companies like Circle
and Coree, but um Chime also did really
well. Um Caris uh company, you know,
more in Dave's uh wheelhouse, right? Um
also just coming out. So, and then wait
till we see um the flurry of S1s that
have already been filed, right? Figma is
a is a generational potential company,
right, that's going to be coming. So, I
think we're going to see fantastic
assets coming out and I think the market
is saying we're open for business. The
the MAX 7 is controversial. To Dave's
point, the the S&P 493, there's going to
be lots of winners and losers. It's
maybe not as obvious. There's going to
be some dispersion. So, bring on the new
cohort.
I think it's the first time you could
probably argue that you could go short
the S&P. Yeah.
And pick a couple of winners. It's It
might be the first time that I would
feel in the last 20 years, cuz I I'm
pretty negative on people being able to
kind of pick stocks.
But I do think that this is such a
transformative moment that if you really
have a sense for what's possible, you
could start to see category killers
emerge out of the S&P. And it's an
opportunity to short the S&P and pick a
couple winners.
Totally. Do you Thomas, but do you do
you care about how these companies go
public? Like do you care about spack
versus direct listing versus IPO? Like
I don't I I only care about the quality
of the underlying asset and what I think
it can be worth 5 years from now. Now
obviously I do care about the liquidity
that I'm getting in the IPO Chimoth. So
you know am I getting a million uh or
100 million or a billion as the float,
right? That's number one. And obviously
I also do care about the percentage that
is floating and I do care about the
lockup. Right? So those those three
elements are really important in terms
of a company going public and how we
think about participating.
Give the listeners the guidance there.
So for the first thing bigger is better
than smaller.
Correct. So it's number one can I even
buy it? Right. If if the IPO is so small
um and you know we can't get a large
enough position it doesn't really make
sense for us. Right? So that would be
kind of point number one, right? Point
number two is how much of the company is
publicly floating, right?
Better there as well.
Correct. We you kind of get a truer
price, right? When a higher percentage
of the company floats, um it's also most
likely going to be less volatile and
less susceptible, chimat, to um you
know, pricing uh predatory pricing and
and manipulation and things like that.
What's the percentage float that
I think 20% is in my opinion kind of a
minimum. Some have gone out you know I
think I remember correct you may know
this I think LinkedIn went out at like
10% or something. I I remember it being
really small
and a lot of us thinking like wow that
is a that is a small
yeah which ended up by the way being
very volatile.
So, so number two, the float and then
number three, the lockup, right? First,
is there one? Um, in a direct listing,
there may not be one, right? So, you may
you may get in that scenario to a truer
price faster. Um, and
Thomas, why do you think there's been no
direct listings? Like, why has that
totally fallen away after I mean Spotify
did one, we did one at Slack,
and then where where are they? Like, why
why don't people pursue those?
So, here's a statistic. I actually had
to double check this because I couldn't
believe it. Right? If you look at the
cohort of companies that went IPO in
2021, right? And uh and I'm actually not
including spaxs in this particular
analysis. Right?
If you look at that cohort t + one year,
the cohort was down about 40% on
average. Right? Okay, fine. Maybe they
went up too high. 2021 was a peak. They
didn't do well in one year. T plus 5
years, it's down 50%.
Right? which which really kind of
shocked me, right? So I think there's
kind of scar tissue on both sides of the
table on the buy side about wait hold on
what am I really buying and how do I
make sure that um it's kind of a
sustainable kind of company but frankly
probably also from boards right who are
taking their best assets public and may
just want to um pursue a more
conventional approach in the beginning
stages right I can tell you for us
direct listing versus IPO makes makes no
functional You know, I think each has a
benefit and I think in some depending on
how how concentrated your ownership base
is, how understandable your business
model is and things like that, but we
just want these companies to come.
There's a market behavior, by the way,
in direct listings, and I I've mentioned
this once, but I've been in two
transactions with direct listings. The
first was Slack, and in the execution of
it, we misexecuted. we meaning me
because I had a huge
ownership of Slack but I didn't know
what to do with it and I ended up
distributing portions along the way and
it then went through all kinds of
turbulence and then it got acquired
slightly above the IPO price and what I
learned in retrospect was the best trade
is actually the first day trade on a
direct listing. So then when it came
back around and I got a distribution the
day before of Coinbase and and I
mentioned this to Brian, this was not a
judgment on the company. I said, "If
this direct listing process is going to
map to what I've experienced at Slack,
the right thing to do is to sell." And I
sold that on day one at 335 bucks a
share.
And ju it's just it's I think Jason,
it's still not at the IPO price.
I think it might be getting close, but
no, it's not back.
So these Yeah. So these direct listings
are not what they're expected to be
either. Yeah. If we look back on spaxs,
I think SoFi is above the price and that
might have been one of yours from Joby
getting close. These were venture
investments. These were latestage
venture investments in your mind,
Thomas. And then retail tried to become
venture capitalists and they didn't have
the 5 10 year horizon that we as venture
capitalists have. Is that your
assessment of it? And are there any
great ones that came out of the spa
movement? Well, I mean the the direct
listing era as an example, let's talk
about Spotify, right, which basically
has 7xed, right, over that period.
So, again, I it's hard to tell, right,
causation versus correlation. That's why
like I think ultimately for me as an
ultimate kind of long-term owner of
these businesses, I really just care
about the quality of the business and
whether you chose to go spack or direct
listing or IPO is a mechanical decision.
Um to me the output is quality of
business and you know that's ultimately
what wins out.
Okay I want to end on this. Uh you just
shared a chart of applovin and the
massive
revenue per employee. This is just
astounding Thomas. Apploven as we can
see here had 3.6 million revenue per
employee in 21 now up to 7.6 million.
They peaked at a,000 employees now down
to 750ish it looks like. In related
news, obviously Microsoft we talked
about the other week let go of 3%.
They're planning on massive cuts again
for sales. These are organizations that
are at record cash, record revenue in an
industry where we had a tradition of not
firing the gray beards and people had
been at the company for more than 10
years. Andy Jasse didn't come up as like
one of the companies we think is going
to win at AI, but it might be the
company most impacted by deploying AI
inside their enterprise. He launched
Amissive. Here it is. I suggest
everybody read it. When you send a
missive like this to your employees,
you're trying to communicate something
to them and to the public markets. So,
he published it on his website. He talks
about dozens of AI projects, AI tools
for advertisers, obviously, Geni for
sellers, you know, their product detail
page. He's talking about Alexa coming
back with a brand new version, shopping
assistance, everything. But then he
started talking about the work force
size. He says in this manifesto in the
next few years we expect this will
reduce our total corporate workforce as
we get efficiency gains from using AI
extensively across the company. So my
question to you Thomas is when you hear
public CEOs talking about lowering the
number of employees while they're
growing 10 20% per year this is
obviously awesome for earnings the share
price but there's going to be massive
job displacement. Any thoughts on the
job displacement? job replacement and
society navigating that and just as well
Andy Jasse specifically and what you
think of Amazon as a business and them
being a player in AI and AI being a
player in their business.
You know, I think it's a it's an
important question and I'll defer to
what Jensen answered on this topic
because in my view it's still the most
credible and cohesive answer I've kind
of heard, right? And Jensen is known uh
the CEO of Nvidia an an incredibly
long-term thinker and in his view is he
looks at a population that's getting
older and he wonders who are going to be
all the young people that are going to
take care of all the old people whether
it's nurses or doctors or other things
like that and in his view we better get
a lot more productive right to deal with
our inverted demographic table. So I
ultimately think this is going to enable
more young people to take care of more
old people, right? And it's just going
to create I think knowledge workers are
incredibly flexible. They can take their
tools from, you know, one particular
skill set to another. So I think this is
going to unleash incredible
opportunities for the economy. I think
it is going to make us more productive
and wealthier. So I'm definitely on the
more optimistic side of the scenario.
Shimoth, any thoughts on Amazon? They
didn't come up, but obviously AWS
crushing it and they're a major player
and they have their own silicon they're
making. You mentioned that being an
important part of the stack. And then
you have Optimus and robots figure that
are going to be in their factories.
That's a lot of jobs. Delivery robots.
They're doing drones like Zipline. They
have their own version of it obviously
and they're doing zuks. So if you just
look at their behavior and you look at
their investments, they're massively
massively investing in robotics,
self-driving, and chips. So they're
pretty hardware focused. Yeah.
For physical AI, they're a kingmaker in
parts because they're a a sync for
demand. So they'll just generate so much
demand for robots. So if Figure lands
the BMW or the UPS robot successfully,
Amazon will buy a gajillion of them. If
Optimus lands a successful robot that
they tune inside the Tesla factory and
then are ready to sell, Amazon will buy
a gajillion of them. If there are drones
that are delivering things, Amazon will
buy a gajillion of them. So on the one
side, there's a lot of typical opex lift
that Amazon will get. I think the
problem is more with AWS, which is that
their success is actually their biggest
bottleneck. The success is that they're
not necessarily kingmaking. They're
about being a purveyor of many, many,
many different things that you can find
inside of AWS marketplace. And so, you
know, the the thing that they'll have to
embrace is well, do I differentiate my
own hardware from Nvidia's at some
point, do I actually make a real bet on
models and try to frankly buy anthropic,
which is probably their only solution
and tightly couple it in and say that,
you know, if you want to have next
generation codegen experiences, they
need to run inside of AWS.
These are the difficult decisions that I
think that Andy will have to face and
he's going to have to spend hundreds of
billions of dollars. But yeah, the the
Amazon retail side is going to be a
kingmaker for all of these physical AI
things.
Freeberg, any thoughts on Amazon just as
a company broadly? Chamat saying, "Hey,
they're a kingmaker." That seems like a
really interesting insight. You have any
insights there on Amazon and they're
playing a part here in the future of AI?
I don't. Thomas, any closing thoughts
here on, you know, the sort of old old
guard, Microsoft, Amazon, and their
employee count and the cuts we're seeing
there, uh, and what these companies will
look like in the future in terms of
revenue per employee. They're not hiring
young people. They're getting rid of the
old folks. They're just advancing, it
seems, at a at a they're adopting AI
pretty uh, severely at these companies.
What are your thoughts there? I'm going
to play I'm going to play the role of
JCAL and I'm going to ask a question to
all three of you guys.
Oh, here we go.
So, Microsoft's employee count peaked at
about 250,000,
you know, call it about a year ago. Who
here believes that in 5 years Microsoft
will have more employees than it does
today?
More.
I'm going to say the same. I think
they'll have just about 250 plus or
minus 10%. I don't think if I if I could
pick push as the answer, I would pick
push, which is they're going to get 10%
better every year with AI, 20% more
efficient. Therefore, they don't need to
add people. But I also don't think they
atrophy much more. So maybe they have
225 250.
Why Why' you say more so quickly? I'm
curious.
Oh, so this chart, which I think is like
a
very dangerous vanity metric,
is why. So what Microsoft touts is what
percentage of code is generated by AI
without answering the more important
question which is is that code useful
and good and if you ask that second
layer Nick I sent you this tweet from
Yan Lun and I'll tell you that this is
my lived experience as well is most code
generated by AI is crap and most of the
tools that we use you know the reason we
call these tools app crappers is because
most of The code that it generates is
crap. So, it's great in a single player
mode, but transitioning from single
player mode to a complex enterprise
environment is not possible today. So, I
think that Microsoft puts these metrics
out because they want to seem that
they're on the front line of it, but I
suspect that this is just like, you
know, how you used to hire Mackenzie
consultants to fire people because it
was good air cover. It's probably just
air cover to fire a bunch of folks that
they probably wanted to get rid of
anyways, but it's not related to that
chart. And the reason is that Yan Lun's
tweet is true. When you allow these
models to run over complicated tasks
over long periods of time, the error
rates compound to such a degree that the
that the resulting output is not
worthwhile. And so until that problem is
fixed, which I'm sure it will be, and I
and I and I'm going to bet that it will
be, the idea that all of a sudden it's
because of coding agents that people are
getting laid off, I think is a fallacy.
So I suspect that Microsoft business on
the margin grows. Back to Dave's point,
some of the 493 shrink and go away.
It'll be cheaper for Microsoft to bundle
together a bunch of other products that
are point features today. And so they'll
have more people. They'll indeed more.
The people will be different. They'll
have different skill sets. But I suspect
Microsoft's employee base grows.
Freeberg, what say you?
I think shrink.
Wow. So, by the way, pretty interesting
to think about. We have one decisively
more, one median about the same a push
and a and a less.
I only say that because I do think that
there's a real probability of revenue
decline in the next 5 years. So, if you
look at the enterprise install base, I
think that cloud gets competed away. So
I do think like on this on the
application software layer, they're
going to have a really hard time in this
new world because the old school
customers that buy Microsoft are going
to die. They're more likely to die in
their marketplace compared to the folks
that are going to build native software,
native workflows. And I'm not really
where Chimath is. I think you may be
right about where AI written code is
today. I I don't think that that's true
3 years from now, four years from now
given the pace of improvement. And so in
a world where you have software written
workflows built for you through agentic
tools, I think that Microsoft's core
business for the is going to decline.
The the losers are their biggest
customers and the winners are not going
to use them. So I I you know that that
would be
where you at Thomas maybe you're the
tiebreaker.
I I'm in Chamas camp where I actually
think the Microsoft business will be
bigger if anything on on kind of alone
and that at the end of the day uh we'll
just need more people to support it.
I just think they'll be they'll be more
relevant. They'll have more productive
employees,
but they'll still be more of them.
I'm predicting incredible growth and the
same number of employees. So you guys
are predicting incredible growth and
employee growth.
I think that that's interesting. So So
sorry.
Less revenue, less employees.
Interesting.
So the thesis as as your grows um is
basically where the the application
dollars go effectively is one way to
think about this, right? So application
dollars go there and that more than
makes up for the decline in in that
business over time, right? And there's
multiple clouds. By the way, I went to
the Google Next event last year and so I
I ended up going to these like special
dinners or whatever, a couple cocktail
dinner thing because I spoke there and I
saw they put me with a bunch of these
people and I CIOS of you know whatever
Fortune50 companies and all of them said
that they're multicloud like they're not
no one's going to standardize on one
cloud so everyone has to be on Microsoft
and Google and I had never really
recognized this or thought about this as
being a a fact that it's not necessarily
the best or the lowest price. At the end
of the day, these guys are going to
distribute their exposure. And so, I
think that maybe supports your case. I'm
very easily con I'm very easily able to
see other arguments today. I'm very
convinced.
Here's the revenue. What a spectacular
revenue run. Uh just
I think all four of us would agree that
if we could synthetically own AWS,
Azure, and GCP, if I could somehow
automatically create an index of all
three of those businesses, right, over
the next five years.
Yeah. Yeah,
you wouldn't need to own anything else.
You wouldn't need own anything else.
I wish Elon would take that.
So, why don't you put up with the shitty
part of the rest of their businesses and
just own all three and that's it. Call
it a day
cuz you've got to assume that if one of
them wins over the other two or
accelerates ahead of the other two, it's
going to more than make up for the
losses that the other two might
experience in their other businesses.
The multiples aren't crazy on those
three companies, by the way.
Correct.
Quite reasonable. Yeah. I think if Elon
took what he did with Colossus and he
had an AWS competitor, he would be a
serious competitor in the space. But
this is like this
the velocity at which he can build out
data centers is extraordinary.
This is where Elon does better because
he can actually get a better like um
fundraising uh in the private market
with XAI than what he has to deal with.
Yeah, he's really he's really struggling
with that.
That's what I'm saying. Yeah. No, no,
I'm saying it's better for him, right?
Hey guys, look who's here. Couldn't stay
away. David Sachs, look at here. You
can't get away from it. 11 o'clock
happens on a Thursday and you start
jonesing for your besties. Welcome to
the ZAR,
David S. Good to be back, Jacob, where
are you? You in LA?
Mhm. I'm in LA. This is
You're at someone's guest house.
Yeah, actually, this is one of your
guest houses. You You just lost track. I
still have I still have the key code.
It's a J Cal Kalen. Jay Calen is at your
guest house.
Jalen. Jalen. Here. I'm here.
come down the hill.
He'll still get that reference. It's
getting kind of dated now.
Oh god. KO Kalan is ride or die. I mean,
he would jump on a a vente or a grande
for you for sure. Let's talk a little
bit here. Since I got you, Sachs, would
you be willing to talk a little bit
about the Genius Act? We just passed the
Senate. I think you have your
fingerprints on this. Is that true?
Yeah. Tell us everything.
Well, it's definitely something we
supported and this is, I think, a huge
milestone. I mean just uh you know what
basically happened is we had this genius
act which is the stable coin bill passed
the senate with 68 votes got 18
democrats they came on board we had to
hit that key threshold of 60 votes in
the senate that's the threshold you need
in the senate unless you know it's it's
um a narrow exception for reconciliation
so it's very very hard to pass any bill
out of the Senate and you need a
significant amount of bipartisan support
and we got that now when you consider
Consider where we were a year ago. You
know, you realize what huge progress
this is for the crypto industry. A year
ago, you had crypto companies being
prosecuted. You had this whole
regulation through prosecution approach
where Gary Gendler, who was the chair of
the SEC then, he wouldn't tell startups
what the rules were, but they would just
announce prosecutions. And this was
driving all the crypto innovation
offshore. And I think we were basically
poised to lose the crypto industry in
the United States. What happened then is
President Trump adopted this cause. He
announced that he wanted to make uh the
United States the crypto capital of the
planet. He really campaigned on this and
as part of his administration. He in the
very first week signed a new executive
order making it clear that his
administration supported crypto. We've
been rooting out all the Biden war on
crypto rules and regulations at the
agency level. And now we have this first
major legislative win. And I would
expect the House will act in the next
few weeks on this and then the president
will have a bill he can sign.
This is uh great work and it's really
important because to your point, Gary
Gensler's concept was, hey, there's an
existing playbook. There's existing
rules. Just follow those. But none of
these things actually match the existing
rules perfectly. So you need some new
rules. They need to evolve.
It was much worse than that because he
would say things like, "Well, just come
into the SEC and talk to us." You know,
so in other words, you got to come in
and talk to us and get our approval. But
then when startups would go in there and
talk to them, there'd be enforcement
people there writing down everything
they said and the next day they get a
wells notice and they would get
investigated honey.
Yeah. They were honeypotted basically.
Yeah.
And so the the response the industry was
okay we're just going to leave the
United States. And that that was what
was in the process of happening until
President Trump won the election and
then changed the tone in Washington. I
think there was one other really
significant thing that that happened
because, you know, obviously President
Trump has gotten Republicans on board
with this cause, but the question is why
are Democrats on board with it? During
the Biden administration, Elizabeth
Warren really called the shots on crypto
and it was well reported that Gendler
was was sort of her ally and her pick.
I've kind of joked that Warren
controlled the Biden autopen on on
crypto because she really did exert that
kind of influence.
So the question is, well, what changed?
And I think one of the big things is
that in this last election, Sherid
Brown, who was the chair of the banking
committee for the Democrats in the
Senate, lost his seat in a close
election against Bernie Moreno. And I
think there were many reasons for him to
lose that seat. He was far to the left
of voters in Ohio. Nonetheless, he had
been a successful politician there for a
long time. And one of the reasons why he
lost is because the crypto industry
really got behind Bernie Mareno because
Sher Brown was just a a total blocker to
any crypto legislation in the mold of
Elizabeth Warren. And I think that a lot
of smart Democrats looked at that and
said, "Why are we dying on this hill
again?" You know?
Yeah.
And I think it's also extraordinarily
popular sachs with consumers and
businesses. So there is a demand here.
and Korea,
we've got you've got something like 50
million wallet holders in the US and
their their their voters.
So that's one out of five Americans
adult,
right? So I think a lot of Democrats
said, "Well, wait a second. Why are we
just blindly following Elizabeth Warren
on this? What exactly is so harmful
about this?" Particularly when what
we're talking about here is creating a
regulatory regime. You know, it
shouldn't be hard to sell Democrats on
new regulations. Uh but in this case,
the reason why there's broad bipartisan
support is because the crypto industry
itself is calling for those regulations
because having regulatory certainty is
better for them than the possibility of
the return of a Gary Gendzer-L like
figure who just prosecutes them without
telling them what the rules are. So this
is why I think you're getting some
significant bipartisan support and
and as you said bringing this on shore
is such a great portion of it. There are
tons of actors who some people might
describe as bad or gray or dark tether
comes to mind with a lot of regulation
against it. And now those folks who are
running away with the industry Thomas
now they have to compete with people
like Jeremy Circle which are totally
buttoned up here in the United States
and it levels the playing field. So it's
an example of actually good regulation
bringing
this opportunity back on shore and
taking it out of the gray area
just on the whole offshore versus
onshore. So it is true that the number
one stable coin issuer on the planet
right now is an offshore company and
that is partly because there has not
been a regulatory framework in the US
and there's been hostility towards the
crypto space and so the logical reaction
to that is to either not get involved in
the crypto space which is what the banks
have done until now or you go offshore.
Neither one is good. And you know, you
can see in the wake of this Genius Act,
the stable coin bill that the banks have
now talked about getting into stable
coins. They're going to issue one. And
then also Tether will under this act
will have three years to come on shore.
But the bottom line is they will have to
operate in the United States. And that's
a good thing for consumers. It's a good
thing for
they three years to get compliance.
They have three years, but they have to
move on shore. Now all stable coin
issuers under this bill will have to be
audited quarterly and
by a real audit not this attestation
nonsense like real audits by American
real audits and it will verify that
every stable coin that's been issued is
backed or fully reserved on a onetoone
basis
with real dollars in an American bank
accounts that are in US T bills or money
market accounts. And so it what it does
is by the way I'm not saying there's
anything wrong with Tether, but this
does provide additional certainty and
confidence because you know that all the
companies are onshore and they've been
fully audited and we know that they're
fully reserved so that when you want to
redeem and cash out your stable coin
tokens, there's a real dollar waiting
there to cash out.
You prevent the undercolateralization
issue.
Yeah. And and by the way, I'm not saying
that there is but but what I'm saying is
now we create total certainty and
confidence which is good for the market.
What happens if a stable coin issuer
does not
like can you issue US dollar stable
coins and not be governed under this
system or no? You're saying because the
US dollar is a US government instrument
then no matter where you are or no
matter where you issue from.
Yeah. All the issuers will be governed
by this. And if you're a legacy offshore
issuer, you're given this time period to
bring yourself into conformity. But
yeah,
otherwise what happens if if they don't
Well, it's a good question. I mean, I
guess the exchanges won't be able to
carry their their tokens
and they won't be able to set foot in
the US. They'll be in violation of US
law. It's just not a good place to be.
Yeah. I mean, you don't have to guess.
Um, there have been dozens of actions
and accusations, like legitimate ones,
against Heather. New York's Attorney
General did a major settlement with him
in 2021. They've been banned from many
jurisdictions and uh in Senate hearings.
Tether should just Tether should just go
public in America and be done with it.
Well, and the issue was there was deep
concerns that they didn't have the
deposits and now they're they're really
trumpeting the fact that they're
massively profitable obviously. So,
there's been tons of uh you can just
search Tether and allegations and you'll
find all that stuff.
I should hear
tether founders Italian
Saxs. I got to give you a lot of credit.
We knew that you would bring an
efficiency level and some expertise to
this administration, but I got to give
you your flowers. We're 5 months into
this administration. Can disagree about
many things. One thing we can't disagree
about is that this piece of legislation
uh is here and we're we're only 5 months
in. So maybe you could speak to the
velocity at which things are getting
done and then uh any other clothing
closing thoughts. I know you got to get
back to your day job. Jake how a lot of
people deserve credit for this. I just
want to give out a couple of shout outs.
So, Senator Bill Hagerty from Tennessee
was the principal author of the
legislation. He did an amazing job
getting Democrat votes and also bringing
the Senate bill into greater alignment
with the House bill. So, hopefully this
can pass the House very quickly.
Chairman Tim Scott who's the chairman of
the banking committee was also
incredible. the majority leader uh John
Thun and then we had a few co-sponsors
of the legislation Cynthia Lemus from
Wyoming and then two Democrats actually
were really important Kirsten Gillibrand
from New York and Angela also Brooks
from Maryland all them did a great job
and we've got great leaders on the house
side as well French Hill who's the
chairman of the house financial services
committee Tom Emmer who's the whip and
Mike Johnson who's the speaker so kudos
to all of them because I think that it
really is a pretty incredible
achievement that they've been able to
get this
through again just a huge sea change
from where we were a year ago where
crypto was basically under attack. It
was being driven offshore and now we
have it as one of the first major piece
of legislation by this new Congress. And
again, that's all because of President
Trump's leadership and prioritization of
this issue. So, thank you to all of them
for making this happen.
Congratulations to you, David. Hey, uh,
one, uh, tactical question I forgot to
ask you. the float on these. This is
like how Tether is making billions of
dollars a year and this is how people
anticipate they're going to make
billions of dollars a year. Are they
able to split that with consumers yet?
Because I I remember reading in early
legislation that you weren't allowed to
pass on the interest made from a stable
coin to like the consumers, I guess. So
you wouldn't it couldn't be an interest
bearing account. If you buy stable
coins, you can't get interest on it. But
the issuer like Circle, that's their
main business model. So did that make it
into the final and and maybe you can
give us some background on that?
No.
No, it did not.
The way the framework works is that the
stablecoin issuers cannot pass on
interest
to the token holders.
Why is that?
Look, I mean, I don't know if there's a
great principled reason. This was a
compromise that was necessary to get the
support of the banking industry quite
frankly.
Ah, they see it as competition. I'm
betting.
Well, there was a lot of concern from
community banks that if stable coins
were paying 5% interest, it would put
them out of business. Personally, I
think that that concern, although
understandable from them, I don't think
that that's what would have happened.
But these are the types of compromises,
quite frankly, that you need in order to
pass legislation. I hope that at some
point in the future, we'll revisit that
and allow stable coin issuers to kind of
just do what they want to do.
All right?
And that'll be easier once the banks get
into the act and they're participating
in this industry.
Got it.
But right now, they're total outsiders
and you can understand the fear factor.
All right. Sax would want to drop you
off, man. I wish we could have you on
for the full show, but uh you you're
busy. You got a lot of things to do.
Love you, dude.
Shed a little tear and I miss my bestie.
See you soon.
Thanks, guys. All right, back.
We got two hours of classic Allin. Uh in
part two of the show, we're going to do
an hour and a half on the Israeli
conflict with Iran. We've got 90 more
minutes coming up. And uh we've got
Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Mirshimer and uh
Jeffrey Saxs joining us in the second in
the third and fourth hour of the all-in
podcast. How's the all-in summit going
Freeberg? How's all-in summit?
You know, we might get uh wait wants to
come
from uh Alibaba.
Who's in touch with him?
I am.
Thanks to Phipe.
I just want to do one quick shout out to
our friend and fellow bestie Vinnie
Lingum.
Oh yes, his movies coming out. A friend
of ours did a documentary on
It's great
Freeberg. You're going to love this.
Only
I denounce I denounce I love Vinnie. I
denounce it. So great. Amazing.
Anyways, it's called Animal.
Oh, it's great, Doc.
And uh
perfect. Can't wait.
Where can Where can people watch it?
I think he's got a couple of deals.
Come to your local slaughter house and
put it on your phone and watch it at the
slaughter house while you're there.
Here's the idea. You're going to consume
a certain number of calories per month.
Us humans were designed to eat meat.
That's the number one thing we should be
doing as a species is eating meat. Nick,
can you put the trailer in the show
notes so that you can get a little
play? Actually, play us out with the
trailer. You can play us out with the
trailer on the show. We'll do them
myself.
All right, guys. I got to go eat. I have
a photo shoot in two hours. I love
Oh, you got a photo shoot. Is it going
to be you showing the legs or just the
top this time? What are you shooting?
What are you shooting?
I'm going to do
blur out the anaconda. You should do
pixelate the anaconda.
I hope it's Italian Vogue. What are you
shooting? Thomas is in the general
neighborhood. I I can't comment, but uh
just tell us bleep it out. Nice.
Tell us bleep it out. Jam, give me a
call. I got to talk to you about this
weekend.
Okay. Love you guys. Talk to you guys.
I'll see you at
Are you guys still doing the tequila
launch?
Yeah, Saturday night. We'll see you
Saturday night. Absolutely.
See you there.
Go to allin.com
yada yada to sign up for the all-in
summit. Apply there for Thomas Leafant,
Shim Popia, Dave Freeberg, and the Zar
David Saxs. I am the world's
greatest executive producer. We'll see
you next time. Jasonallin.com.
Bye.
Adios.
Play the trailer.
We're too good of hunters.
We came out of the trees not to eat the
grass, but to eat the grass eaters.
Meat is the most nutrientdense food that
human beings can eat.
We're carnivores, but we're not living
as carnivores.
We are just better designed and more
efficient at getting nutrition from
meat. Got to remember where we came from
and what our food should be.
It will change your life.