# Podcast Transcript
# Show: All-In with Chamath, Jason, Sacks & Friedberg
# Episode: Trump vs Powell, Solving the Debt Crisis, The $10T AGI Prize, GENIUS Act Becomes Law
# YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wu-p5xrJ8-E
# Downloaded: 2025-07-19 20:35:47

So, uh, Gavin, were you at the Coldplay
concert in Boston last night?
Uh, sadly I missed that. It's
amazing.
Exactly. I was at home with my wife, but
yeah. Wow. How insane.
There's just so many layers to that
story. It's impossible to get away from.
It'll be 72 hours of memes. Dave, um,
were you at the Cold Play concert in
Boston last night? And if so, were you
with Woody, your astronaut friend?
Did you take Woody to the concert?
No, counselor. I was here in Santa Cruz
last night.
You were in Santa Cruz on a business
trip.
The funny thing is, if they had not
reacted the way they did, the camera
would have just panned away.
Yeah.
Nothing.
No one would have ever known.
There is some great irony to the head of
people and human resources being in an
affair with the CEO apparently.
Allegedly. Don't take conclusions,
Jason.
No, it could have. I
He could have been cracking her back.
You know, like when you get your back
tight chiropractic
Yeah. chiropractic move.
Oh my god.
Let your winners ride.
Rainman David.
We open sourced it to the fans and
they've just gone crazy with it.
All right, let's get to work. It is uh
the slow slow news weeks of summer and
we are delighted delighted to have fan
favorite super intelligent bestie Gavin
Baker with us from a treaties. How are
you sir? How's your summer shaping up?
Fantastic. Um it's been awesome.
Stock market is back. That's good for
you because you invest in both public
and private companies. Yeah,
my firm does. Yes. Yeah.
Gavin, let me ask you a question. How do
you price tariffs today? So, where do
you think this ends up? Obviously,
there's a lot of back and forth and you
know, everyone's trying to make a read
on what the endgame is. What's your
market take as you're making investments
right now and where we end up on the
tariff front?
It is a good question. It's it's open.
We're going to see what happens with
sectoral tariffs. I think it's it's
hard. You're doing the winning AI
summit. It's going to be hard to win in
AI if we put um tariffs on
semiconductors.
But for a lot of what I do for now,
tariffs are not super relevant. But, you
know, for for the market, for the
economy, they are relevant. But for AI,
they're maybe a little less relevant
because I think everyone is is maybe a
little more sophisticated about the
downsides of tariffs for constructing
data centers here in the United States.
Mhm. And ultimately,
don't we look at the tariff situation
and say despite the shock and awe of the
opening salvo, it's quite a boring
position now. It just seems to be
reciprocity and reasonable reciprocity
at that. Yeah, that's how we would sort
of categorize the endgame here.
I would say for everyone but China. Um,
you know, it is and you know, we've
clearly reached some sort of deal with
China. you know, rare earths for H20s
and MI308Xs.
But it's interesting and one of the the
trade deals that has been finalized is
Vietnam, and there's a special carveout
for goods that were trans shipped from
China through Vietnam. So, they are
clearly focused on China more than
almost any, you know, any other country,
rightly or wrongly. But yeah, and I do
think there is,
you know, there was maybe
three months where where Trump said he
did not care about the stock market, but
now he's back to quoting the market at
all-time highs.
Yes,
he clearly cares and is clearly very
sensitive to market feedback. So, I
think that that will be a um
dampening mechanism
on tariff volatility.
But, you know, they passed the bill and
he immediately went back to tariffs and,
you know, we'll see where we land in
August. But I just think the most
important thing in the market by far is
AI. It kind of overwhelms everything
else.
Absolutely. And, uh, I guess the other
big story with the market, and we'll get
into the H20s. Uh David Sax will be
joining us in a moment, so he'll be
jumping in halfway through it, but let's
start with maybe this uh soft launch of
the firing of Jerome Powell. On
Wednesday morning, Bloomberg reported
that Trump was likely to fire Pal soon
after talking with Republican lawmakers.
Shortly after that, the New York Times
reported that Trump had actually drafted
Pal's termination letter. Market
instantly reacted negatively, dropped
1%. Bond yields rose about 10 basis
points. You can see the blips here on
these charts starting around 11:30 a.m.
when the article was published. Poly
market reported Jerome Powell out as Fed
chair in 2025 spiked up to uh 30% on
Wednesday before dropping back down to
20%. Trump uh quickly squashed these
rumors. Markets rebounded and Trump said
we're not planning on doing anything
regarding Pal. Some people speculating
maybe this was Trump testing the market
reaction. As you talked about earlier,
Gavin, he uh he does seem to care about
the market as most presidents do. If you
remember, Trump nominated Pal as Fed
chair November 2nd, 2017. And he has
gone on a tirade the last couple of
months, calling Pal stupid, numbum
skull, stubborn, low IQ, a knucklehead,
mentally average. It's a long list of
descriptors of the person he placed.
Pal's term ends May of next year. White
House officials have confirmed Trump is
in the process of selecting his
successor. Poly market says that could
be Kevin Walsh 22%, Kevin Hasset 19%,
Scott Besson 15%. This hasn't actually
ever happened, right?
We've never had a Fed share fired. But
we have inflation coming back a bit. If
you all remember, there's a dual mandate
for the Fed to keep unemployment low.
Check. That's pretty good. And keeping
inflation under control. That's been
going very well since our massive
inflation spike over the past couple
years. And uh here we go. CPI ticked up
10% from 2.4 to 2.7% 30 basis point
increase over May. So any thoughts,
Gavin, on these macro issues around
inflation coming back a bit, the the
stock market at an all-time high and
unemployment.
If you believe the unemployment data,
and we've had a bunch of debates here
about that, you know, how how correct is
it being at close to an all-time low in
our lifetimes. Let's go macro.
Yeah, I wouldn't
read too much into the CPI bouncing up a
little bit. There's base rate effects, I
think, on a month-over-month uh basis.
And if you looked at, you know, what
what economists call core, super core,
different, you know, ways to maybe
smooth out CPI, I think inflation is
still
relatively contained
as far as, but I mean,
a lot of very smart people are convinced
that tariffs will lead to inflation.
We'll see. There's certainly sound
theoretical arguments for why they will,
but it does look like maybe the um
overseas exporters are eating a little
bit more of the tariffs than than people
thought that they would, which is which
is good for US inflation. But, you know,
the combination of a very weak dollar
and tariffs theoretically should lead to
a little more
inflation.
Firing pal,
I worry that the market only went down
1%. I do think the market would go down
quite a bit more if Trump did fire Pal.
I think it would be a mistake. I hope he
doesn't do it and you know there are
very sound reasons for the Federal
Reserve to be independent
and I hope he does not read from that
trial balloon down 1% that that's all
that would happen. Look, the world would
continue spinning, America would go on,
but it would be a mistake.
Freeberg, we have uh this idea that
there would be a couple of rate cuts and
maybe we get monetary velocity going
again. People will be able to take more
loans out, invest more in business. But
with the stock market tearing it up,
there's a lot of wealth being put into
the system with the big beautiful bill.
There's a lot of spending in there as
we've talked about here. Putting that
aside, it feels like the economy is in
really great shape. Chances of a rate
cut has now flipped. No change is now
the favorite option for September.
whereas a week ago the favorite option
was 25 bips. So this idea that we're
going to cut or the Fed's going to cut
that seems to be changing as well. So
your thoughts on the um the macro
picture here? So I'm not sure like the
firing of Jerome Pal necessarily solves
the US fiscal challenge which is rising
interest rates on the long end of the
Treasury curve. So, if you look at the
the 30-year Treasury yield over time,
and Nick, maybe you could pull this up
while I'm talking, but as of today,
we're at exactly 5% on the 30-year. And
you can see that this 5% yield, which is
what the market is demanding the United
States government pay in order to be
loaned the money to make the bill
payments that the US government has to
make every year is the highest it's
been. The borrowing cost is the highest
it's been since going all the way back
to 2007 as of today. And I think this is
the real story for the United States. We
have 36 trillion of debt. The average
interest rate we're paying on that debt
today is 3.3%. That's the average of all
the treasuries that the federal
government has issued, the Treasury
Department has issued to borrow the
money that it is using and has used to
pay all its bills. And if you look at
the 5% number, that's a 1.7% hike.
At 3.3%, which is the current average
rate we're paying across $36 trillion,
we're we have a run rate interest
expense. So just the money we're paying
each year and the interest of the
outstanding debt is $1.2 trillion a
year. And if this spikes up to 5% from
3.3, we're talking about nearly $2
trillion a year in interest expense. And
that number is only going to get bigger
as we borrow more money each year and
the loan balance goes up, the
outstanding debt goes up because we are
still running a deficit. The government
is spending more than it's making every
year. So the crisis that America faces
is a more profound fiscal crisis where
the rates that we're having to pay are a
function of what the market is telling
us. The market does not want to loan the
United States money over a 30-year
period for less than 5% as of today. And
so making adjustments to the short end
of the Treasury curve, making overnight
loans cheaper, which is what the Fed can
do, will stimulate the economy and make
more money flow easily because now
you'll be able to borrow money overnight
to do stuff like build a building and
then sell the building next week or next
month or take out a car loan and pay it
down and use your car to go drive for
Uber and grow the economy and other
things. So the theory is that if we can,
you know, drive rates down on the short
end of the curve, we'll grow the economy
such that we'll be able to make those
payments on the long end of the curve.
Um, but there comes a point where again,
you're only going to be able to move the
market so much until the more important
fiscal situations are going to be
addressed, which is
spending, taxation, and some of the
other key policy issues. So I think what
the market is saying is it's not as much
about Jerome Pal and frankly getting rid
of a prudent individual may be more
challenging than it is beneficial when
the real challenges facing the United
States need to be more hardily
addressed. So I think that's my kind of
take on this whole
yeah go ahead Gavin build on it.
So point number one the 30-year has gone
up since Pal started cutting rates. So
that is just empirical proof that what
David is saying I think is right. And
second,
the deficit has been a feature of
American politics dating back to Ross
Perau's,
you know, 1992
presidential run,
his independent third party run.
His independent third party run.
Here we go. But yes, but it the deficit
never really mattered because interest
rates kept going down such that even as
our debt grew, interest expense has kind
of a percentage of the government's
budget stayed relatively low. Now that
rates have gone up and don't seem like
they're,
you know, going down anytime soon, the
deficit does matter and it really
matters. And you can kind of run a a
couple of scenarios, but like pick your
pick your metric.
If the deficit kind of continues at
current levels and we were to refinance
the debt at the prices that uh you know
David was talking about,
you know, it's it's only a few years
before spending on interest is
significantly larger than spending on
Medicare and Medicaid or Social Security
or the military. So, pick something you
care about. But you know our current
course in speed it's it's in the not
tooistant future where interest expense
is the biggest line item for the
government and that is not healthy and
that's why the deficit finally matters.
It's just that rates are higher. But the
great thing is is there is a virtuous
cycle here. Has you close the deficit
rates should theoretically
come down
and then those both feed on each other
to kind of help the problem. And it is
possible. There's no silver bullet here,
but some combination of slowing
government spending, extra revenue, and
you know, tariffs are effectively, we've
never had a consumption tax here in
America, which I think is a good thing
because consumption taxes are very
regressive.
But the reality is like even when Obama
controlled the House, the Senate, and
was the most popular Democratic
president of our lifetime, I don't think
federal government tax receipts, has a
percentage of GDP got above 18 19%. So
that's kind of the ceiling.
And it for income taxes alone, and
tariffs are really just a consumption
tax that kind of insense domestic
manufacturing. I mean, there's all sorts
of reasons they're bad ideas. You know,
David Ricardo, the theory of comparative
advantage,
100% correct. Free trade is a good
thing.
But introducing some sort of a
consumption tax, growing the economy a
little bit faster through deregulation
and slowing government spending.
I think there is a way out of this for
America.
Yeah.
But it's important to find the way
because the deficit finally does matter
after really never mattering in my
political lifetime.
It is interesting. We've never had to
worry about our debt. It was always
manageable
because it wasn't that large. And even
when it got large, it wasn't compared to
GDP because the country was doing so
well. We had the PC revolution. We had
the internet boom. I mean, we've had
boom after boom after boom in efficiency
that we've led the world. When these
companies like Google or Apple take over
the world and all those tax receipts and
income comes into our country, that does
sort of um make you not look at it. I
guess I you know, I've been talking to
you Gavin. uh not to make this super
political, but both parties have proven
that they have no interest historically
and in in the current one with cutting
spending. It's just the nature of it.
So, we can sit here whether you're a
Biden fan, Trump fan, put it all aside.
Both parties love spending and they're
not stopping. One of our friends has
proposed, hey, maybe in the midterms we
have a couple of uh these House
positions, couple senators, maybe we try
to flip them and create a new party that
cares about this issue. What are your
thoughts broadly on that? If a couple of
more Joe Mansion types were in the
House, the Senate, could this country
maybe start to make this the um the
deciding issue? And maybe could we see
some movement on the other two parties,
some pressure on them by a third party,
an America party perhaps?
Yeah. Well, I think a few things.
I do think there is room for a much more
centrist party in America.
you know, the way the primaries work,
it, you know, leads to more maybe
extreme candidates
than anyone would actually want,
you know, be being each party's
candidate. I think a third party would
be helpful,
you know, and you know, I think there's
plenty of room for a party that is, you
know, kind of a, you know, fiscally
conservative,
you know, reasonably socially liberal,
pro-American energy production,
all kinds of energy production,
including solar
importantly.
So, I think there is room for that. And
I think it is right that if you just
target a few races, you can have a big
impact. But I would just say, yeah,
humbly, I think the American party is a
great idea.
I just don't know that it is the highest
and best use of Elon's talents at this
moment in time with what's happening
with AI.
and just you know to the extent uh Elon
is a friend of the pod I just think
staying focused AI Mars that might be
the highest and best use of his
particular talent
100%
hasn't that been the case for for some
time Gavin and anytime there's something
whether it's Neurolink or Boring Company
or some other new project that there's
these claims that this is a distraction
away from the highest priority work that
should be
I mean, is the political stuff unique?
And then his point of view on the
political stuff, just like it was with
Twitter, is that it's existential to
society and civilization and our ability
to function and to do, you know, to
achieve the progress that he aims to
achieve and his core function. So
obviously he is succeeding being the CEO
of many different companies
but you know I think a big part of what
makes him kind of exceptional as a CEO
is the perfectionism the drive and you
know politics is not a game of
perfection it's a game of compromise
so I am sure if he sets his mind to the
America party that he will succeed but I
think there are other things for him to
focus on and you know the Boring company
Neuralink.
These are games of perfection. These
are, you know, this is about
engineering. This is about solving a
problem. It's not, you know, compromise
in the art of the possible. So, I think
he would succeed. I just think that
there are other things that maybe a
higher calling for him.
Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, and the the cost of being
away from his businesses this last time
around, as he said very publicly, was
severe. It was intense. And he's had to
really regroup. But we got this
incredible news when Grock 4 came out.
And I think we should maybe talk a
little bit here about what that big
prize is. The big prize, I think, is
most well, it's actually going to be an
open question. uh Freeberg, I think the
big prize is whoever wins general
intelligence, super intelligence or the
biggest cluster or the most power to
power the biggest cluster that powers
general super intelligence. So where do
we sit on the language models today,
Gavin and Elon's recent,
let's just call it what it is. I mean,
incredibly dominant release of Grock 4.
I don't think people expected that. They
didn't expect him to be able to leaprog
everybody. And and let's be honest,
people are leaprogging each other every
four to six months. So I I fully expect
Gemini will leaprog rock and open AI
will have their time in the sun again as
well. But this was pretty impressive,
right?
I would say this is the biggest leaprog
we've seen in quite some time. And I
think the benchmarks that matter are
RKGI2
and humanities last exam where it did in
in the case of RKGI2 it's called
semi-private which is important because
it means that some of the questions were
held back because a criticism of these
models is they memorize the answer and
so RKGI2 it has not seen the questions
before and it did roughly twice as good
as you know the state-of-the-art Google
open AI and anthropic models and then a
humanity 's last exam, you know, we can
call it 50 to 75%
that are, you know, exceptional humans
score 5% on that. It scores in the 40s.
So, this is incredible progress. And I
think it's worth mentioning
this model was trained on Hopper. So,
this this model is probably about as far
as you can take the last generation of
Nvidia GPUs. the next models we see, you
know, Gro 5, you know, '05 from OpenAI,
whatever they're going to call gym, the
next Gemini,
they will be trained on Blackwell and I
think that will be a really big step
function. But I do think the ultimate
prize here is um artificial super
intelligence. Like I think artificial
general intelligence will create a lot
of economic value. But you know and you
know maybe we will be able to work less
as humans. But I think ASI artificial
super intelligence is what is really
exciting you in terms of maybe you know
being able to live longer you know
really kind of fundamentally kind of
change the fabric of our lives. Can you
take a stab at explaining that
difference in definition to the audience
who they hear these terms and we kind of
bundle them into either a transcendent
intelligence that we haven't seen before
that we as humans can't comprehend. It
goes beyond human intelligence or this
is the smartest human on the planet and
where we are right now in this journey
because I think these terms are all
getting muddled together and I think we
have an interesting conversation here if
we parse them. I think artificial
general intelligence, I would define it
as an AI that can take economically
useful actions in a variety of domains
and be better than the average human in
most domains, all domains.
But that's very different than super
intelligence.
You know, being, you know, being able to
draft a contract, that's not super
intelligence, but it is useful. Being
able to do a medical diagnosis, not
super intelligence, but it is useful.
you know, being able to book my travel,
so on and so forth. Super intelligence
means exactly what you said that it is
smarter than any human. It has, you
know, access to all of human knowledge.
And I think one of the most interesting
questions is what will the economic
returns to super intelligence be? And
they are definitionally unknowable
because we have never seen super
intelligence before. If as humans we
have kind of um pushed the limits of
physics, biology, chemistry, the laws of
the universe, then maybe the economic
returns to super intelligence won't be
that high. But if super intelligence is
curing cancer and inventing warp drives,
then the returns are going to be really,
really high and it's fundamentally
unknowable.
Yeah.
Okay. So, we're at general intelligence.
Hey, your lawyer, your tax, your
accountant is going to go much faster.
They'll have a co-pilot. This is all
going to be great for a business. Every
business gets 10% more efficient a
month. Seems like a reasonable bogey,
which means every 7 8 n months, every
business is going to get twice as
efficient at these kind of chores. Yeah,
I think that I wouldn't say that's a
reasonable bogey. I think that might be
a little aggressive. It's, you know, the
world the world always it's, you know, I
think it's a a Bill Gates quote. You
know the the world always changes less
than you expect over the next 1 2 3
years but way more than you expect over
10 years. Just takes time for
technologies to diffuse. You know maybe
really nimble startups will see some of
the gains you know that you were talking
about
but I mean if we doubled productivity I
mean that would be like an economic
revolution.
I mean we're seeing it in programming. I
I I for sure if you talk to the average
developer, they I think would say
they're getting 5 to 10% better a month.
Better being defined as faster shipping
more code.
Rule of 72. Hey, you know, every year at
least, you're going you're going to be
twice as good. I think that actually
seems to be happening with developers.
I think it is happening with software. I
think software is the first area where
you've seen a real true kind of economic
productivity impact
generalized. A lot of companies are
having incredible success with AI for
customer, you know, support for sales. I
think you see it more in startups than
big companies, but it the impact it has
had on coding is undeniable.
Freeberg, let me swing this around to
you. We've got the super intelligence
out there. We've got AGI out there.
One of the things Gavin said was by
definition, you can't quantify the gains
of super intelligence. That is the big
prize here. That's why people are
putting this much money into these kind
of data centers. Yeah. In your mind,
it's not just the general intelligence.
That would be the silver medal. People
are going for the gold here, not general
intelligence, super intelligence
breakthroughs that we can't imagine. Am
I Would you say that's a fair way to uh
sum up the massive interest in investing
in these projects?
Yeah. I mean, I think there's something
where everyone has identified this
asmmptoic return moment where if you get
to that moment, you're limitless in
terms of the upside. Is there one
winner? I don't know. I don't think so.
But I I would also kind of reframe this
as being some binary condition that I
think we're talking about it as being
quote general intelligence, super
intelligence as being on a spectrum of
leverage towards complexity. M
complexity meaning like I can do a
simple task like instead of writing a
letter and putting it in an envelope and
having some guy carry it to my mom, you
know, and she gets it the next day, I
can digitally get her that message
instantly over email. That creates an
incredible amount of leverage and solves
a lot of the complexity of getting her
that communication from me. So if I as a
human said I would like to harness
fusion power similar to what the sun
uses to make energy and I want to do
that on earth today we're in call it
year 40 or 50 of a research cycle of
humans trying to solve that particularly
complex problem. It's a scientific
problem. It's a discovery problem. It's
an engineering problem. And this idea of
super intelligence is that it could give
us immense
leverage in solving that complex problem
that we otherwise may be challenged to
solve over decades or hundreds of years
or think about one day solving a problem
that would take humans thousands of
years to solve. I I don't think that
humans are limited in our ability to
solve problems. I think we're limited in
terms of time. And what intelligence
what digital intelligence gives us is
leverage on time so that we can now
tackle ever more complex tasks that as
you think about these tasks the amount
of time isn't just an incremental one
year or two years but it becomes a
hundred years or maybe a thousand years.
So this relates to I think projects
around physics, around chemistry, around
transportation, around biology
where we're probably fundamentally
scratching the surface today and where
the super intelligence is an enormous
leverage creator for us. And so I don't
view it as some like species or race
that independently persists in its own
intentions. But it is a tool that
provides leverage in a way that is
orders of magnitude greater than the
leverage we got from yesterday year's
digital tools and probably today's AI
tools and probably tomorrow's general
intelligence tools is kind of how I
would I would think about it. And you
know maybe it's because one model does
so much stuff better than any human you
can call it super intelligence. But I
think functionally leverage and into
complexity is is where this becomes
super compelling for humans. And it's
why I think we can and should be highly
optimistic about living very long lives
and traveling anywhere we want and
having abundance in food and having
abundance in resources and having
abundance in recouping our time to do
the things we want to do instead of the
things that we have to do today because
we don't have access to this incredible
leverage. So that's where I get kind of
I love it. I think it's a great way to
look at it. But I want to go back to the
silver metal here in this sort of
competition. Gold being super
intelligence. We start solving fusion
and really big problems on deep research
cycles and the velocity of that goes up.
But just going back to the silver, you
know, everybody in the economy becomes I
don't know single digit. It's more
efficient every month and you know some
amount every year. I've been trying to
back of the envelope what I think the
value is for uh a human being in the
west in the modern world
and what they should spend on AI per
month. I've come up with a number of
about 75 bucks somewhere in that range
is a nobrainer to spend on your AI per
month as an individual working in the
world. If that's the premise, right, I
think there's a billion people in the
developed world who could spend, let's
call it a hundred a month. It's 1,200 a
year. Doesn't take a genius to figure
out this is a trillion dollar in revenue
based on market cap. That's probably 10
trillion in market cap. And then we just
have to back into the spending of what
it costs to build this. You're doing
these kind of calculations, I'm sure, at
a treaties. Yeah. and and where this
general back of the envelope that I've
come up with in my mind for a mental
model that there's a $10 trillion prize,
a trillion dollars in revenue just in
the silver medal, does that jive with
the spending we're seeing today? I think
people are putting in 10 billion worth
of equipment a year across five
different companies, right?
Well, I think they're putting in quite a
bit more than 10 billion per year um
um each.
No, no, Google alone's doing 70 billion
this year. each 70.
But is that is that 70 billion they're
putting in this year going to be
repeated for the next five years? So
it'll be 350 billion
if you look at if you well yeah TBD the
future is always uncertain but um
you know if there are economic returns
to that they will keep doing it for
sure. Something interesting is you know
AI is you know as we've discussed in
previous all-ins extremely compute
intensive and it's just at no point in
my career as a tech investor except the
very beginning which was kind of the end
of the PC wars which Dell won by being a
lowcost producer going direct cutting
out the working capital you know the
components and a PC depreciate so if you
have to go through a store um where
where it sits on the shelves you're at a
big disadvantage from you know either a
you know call it a cost or quality
perspective. But at no point in the 25
years I've been a tech investor has
being the lowcost producer mattered.
Being the lowcost producer is really
going to matter in AI because um at some
level the amount of tokens you produce
is intelligence because of test time
compute um you know post-raining
reinforcement learning and so if you can
produce those tokens at a lower cost
you'll have a big advantage. You know,
if for that 75 billion or 30 billion or
50 billion that you're spending per year
in capex, you can produce more tokens,
that is a profound advantage. I don't
like your your calculations like just
has a back of the envelope,
you know, kind of scratch. They seem
reasonable to me. the trillion dollars a
year in revenue because of AI seems
quite reasonable when you frame it as a
thousand dollars for a person to be
whatever 30 40 50% more efficient at
work every year.
Yeah. And it's just you we could
probably go back and look at kind of
like the early days of you know cell
phones and what were people willing to
pay relative to disposable income.
Your PC analogy would actually be the
perfect one. A PC at back in the that
era was what three $4,000 per person.
and they lasted for 3 years. So it was
exactly a thousand a year.
But this is why this is why
creating such delineated distinction
between different types of AI is
is also like the equivalent of trying to
create distinctions between other types
of technology. So the the automobile,
the airplane, the telephone, the
computer, all of these technologies are
tools that created leverage uh leverage
on things that were otherwise complexity
and reduce them down to simplicity from
a human perspective. pick up the phone,
make a call instead of giddying up on
your horse and going across the country
to deliver a message or using a computer
to do a spreadsheet that calculated
everything for you rather than
calculated by hand and so on and so
forth. like all of these tools reduce
complexity to simple tasks for humans
and the everinccreasing complexity of
what we can accomplish with digital
tools is you know continuing in this
kind of era now but that's why I think
it's very similar Jason like we this is
not some new concept it's it's the
continuation of human productivity it's
the continuation of the improvement of
what humans can do what we can produce
what we can and and yes there's a
concept now that intelligence has become
such a like it's caught up to everything
But and Gavin, I don't know if you think
that there is this concept of some
moment of singularity, but it it does
feel to me like there's just
extraordinary leverage that's being
created that feels similar to Yeah,
for sure that's true. I hope that's
true. I hope your vision of it being a
productivity enhancer for humans is
correct. You know, I do think, you know,
people deep in AI
do think there's some probability that
it goes sideways, but I hope I I hope
that you're right. But coming back to to
JCAL's, you know, $10 trillion prize
and, you know, relative to, you know,
the market caps and the companies
involved, it it it needs to be at least
$10 trillion. Something that I think is
is interesting and and and relevant
particularly to Grock 4 being the best
product is the best product doesn't
always win in technology.
No. Yeah.
Yeah. In sports, you know, they say uh
defense wins championships and on the
internet distribution wins championships
and Gro four has formidable competitors
with lots of distribution and Google
and you know Meta if they get their act
together Microsoft and so from an
industrial logic perspective something
that I think makes a lot of sense
particularly since OpenAI bought Johnny
Ives hardware startup which will place
them into competition with Apple at some
point is XAI and Apple are natural
partners. There's been a lot of news
about Apple thinking about buying
Perplexity or Mixedraw, but that's just
a band-aid. Those companies don't get
Apple what they need. And Apple's had an
incredible partnership for many years
now with Google that's generating tens
of billions of dollars for both
companies. And I think there is solid
industrial logic for a partnership. you
could have Apple Grock, safe gro,
whatever you want to call it, you know,
so that Apple feels comfortable and that
probably also helps Grock in the
enterprise and then it also helps both
Apple and Google with this DOJ trial.
And so I think in this, you know,
incredibly high elo chess match that is
being played between the leading labs
like that is
that partnership makes a lot of sense
for both companies. first time I've
heard anybody sort of make that natural
connection. But you're right, Eric
Schmidt and Steve Jobs at one point had
this discussion which was, "Hey, we've
got search and you've got a browser now
because the iPhone didn't have a
browser, you know, uh or you know, they
could have built their own search
engine. They could have partnered with
Yahoo, but they decided to make this
long-term partnership with Google and
man that dropped what, 20, 30 billion to
the bottom line at Apple and cemented
Google's search franchise." Absolutely.
And right now that deal is being
litigated by the DOJ and the DOJ is
considering remedies. And so if you
bring on a really kind of effective,
credible AI provider,
I think it could help both Google and
Apple with their antitrust issues. And
at the end of the day, you know, Google,
they have Android and their Pixel
phones. OpenAI is making hardware.
Anthropic is kind of a captive of
Amazon. Meta is kind of a um you know
they're they're in a death match with
Apple. So I think there is really sound
logic for that partnership. I think it'
be good for both companies. Love to see
it happen.
It feels to me like the interface is
going to be the browser. I know this
sounds crazy but I've been playing with
the comet browser from Perplexity. Did
you play with it yet, Gavin? Or look at
some of the demos.
Yeah.
What are your thoughts here? because
it's really and and then chat GPT just
launched a virtual desktop that pops up
to go do your, you know, little
web-based scrapes, agents, assignments,
whatever you I'm going to call it,
assignments, you know, homework, chores,
go do your chores. What What are your
thoughts on this modality?
Yeah, the browser is part of
distribution winning championships.
Apple has Safari, Google has Chrome, and
if you're not going to strike a
partnership with one of those
distribution channels, you will
eventually need to do your own browser.
And you can extend that logic, you know,
all the way, you know, that's why they
Google, they did a browser, they did a
phone, but I also do think the um, you
know, the companions from Grock have
been interesting to play with and they
certainly make it more engaging
that becomes the agent. It's a kind of
incredible, mind-blowing
concept for that to be the interface.
All right, listen. Here we go. Calling
in live. Got a breaking bestie coming on
board here. Uh, David Sachs calling in
live. I I see the pale yellow paint uh
and an ancient building. You must be in
some sort of wing of the great White
House. Is that correct, David?
I am. Well, I'm actually not in the
White House, per se. I guess I'm on the
White House grounds. We're in the
Eisenhower Executive Office Building.
That's where my office.
I can tell from that I've been here.
Yeah. No, I they said great things. I
And I checked my calendar. I'll I'll
send you some photos. It's great.
Well, no, but the calendar's wide open
between now and the All-Ins Summit.
Allin.com yada yada. So, the windows
there, Sachs. The windows wide open. And
I'll see you in the cafeteria, I guess.
Play your cards right on stage next
week, Jake. And you might get invited
after the the AI summit we're doing.
Yes,
absolutely.
The AI event in DC next Wednesday, which
has been publicly announced, so it's
going to be exciting.
David, you uh you brought a friend
today. Maybe introduce your friend and
tell us uh what you got done. What have
you gotten done in the last week for the
American people? They want to know what
because you weren't here last week doing
the pod, so you must have gotten
something done for the American people.
Let's hear it.
Well, first of all, this is the Zar
behind thesar, Bohe.
Okay. He's the executive director of the
president's working group on digital
assets. So that's the working group that
I chair, but he actually does all the
work. He's the executive director and
he's here every day. And um he's been
working on crypto pretty much non-stop
since we started the administration.
and he's kind of the unsung hero
within our operation here on these two
bills that just passed the house which
are historic and quite momentous.
So, uh, Bo, welcome to the program and,
uh, maybe you could tell us a little bit
about these bills and what they do for
the American people.
Yeah, well, first of all, David, you're
you're too kind. We've had a blast
working together. I mean, we connected
uh back in transition, I think in late
November, and we started mapping out a
plan for this, and to see it come to
fruition this week is is really like
it's unbelievable. Um the fact that we
had the bipartisan votes we did today in
the House um is remarkable. It's
unprecedented and it shows you that, you
know, leaders on both sides of the aisle
understand that our country has to be at
the forefront of this technological
development.
But let's start with genius because I
think genius is really the foundation
for everything else we can build upon in
this space. A lot of industry cares
about market structure as do we and we
want to see it done on the president's
desk as well. But genius is unique
because it really updates the payment
rails inside of our current financial
system. I mean the payment rails have
been archaic and I've likened it to the
fact of the ways in which we've
communicated have changed quite
dramatically over the course of the last
several decades. the ways in which we
move money really haven't and we have
the technology there and blockchain
technology.
So what we're doing here is we're fixing
the plumbing of our financial system.
We're securing US dollar dominance for
decades to come. If you want to access
our capital markets, you're going to
have to use a dollar back stable. You're
also providing a pathway for, you know,
tokenization of public securities and
24/7 markets and the things that people
have dreamed about for for quite some
time.
This is a revolutionary piece of
legislation and the fact that it had
this much bipartisan support is
incredible. It's a testament to
President Trump's leadership. It's a
testament to our fantastic AI and
cryptosar, David's leadership. I mean,
he's truly been the guiding star behind
the ideology and what we're pushing
here. And, you know, he has a phenomenal
team as well. I mean, I I'd be remiss
not to thank Tracy who's David's chief
of staff. I mean, in the midst of all
the chaos to get this done and like
there was so many steps to this, we had
to beat the banking lobby to get it
passed the Senate, then it moved over to
the House in which we had to to to
basically fight some members that that
really misinterpreted or misunderstood
what this bill actually did. And the
president stepped up. David stepped up
in the enormous way. It wouldn't have
happened without either of them. And so
now we have this bill heading to his
desk tomorrow. And to pivot to market
structure really briefly, this provides
like the rules of the road for the
exchanges, the brokers, everyone in the
space, they desperately need it so that
we can break down the wall between
traditional financial institutions and
these digital asset players. I think
that's that's well underway. Obviously,
you know, getting a vote as strong as
they did in the House is indicative of
what can happen in the Senate. If we
deliver on these two pieces of
legislation, I mean, that's about 90% of
what needs to be done for crypto to make
the US crypto a capital of the world.
And, you know, it's it's just
remarkable. I mean, we're we're over the
moon.
Okay, Saxs, you got these two things
over the finish line. Congratulations on
that. Lots of compromises you had to
make. So, I want to get into what were
the compromises to get this done.
Just to clarify one thing when you say
finish line. So, like Bo was saying,
there's two bills. There's the Genius
Act, which is the stable coin
legislation, and then there's the
Clarity Act, which is market structure.
It's basically all the other tokens
besides stable coins. Where we are is
that both passed the House today, but
GDS has already passed the Senate, so it
is going to the president's desk
tomorrow, and it will become law. We're
doing a bill signing with the president.
By the time this pot is released, it
will probably be law. I think we will
have the the signing.
Clarity started in the House and so it
has passed the House and now it's going
to the Senate and they still have to do
their hearings and markup on it and we
expect that'll happen over the next
couple of months. In fact, the chairman
of the Senate Bank Committee, Tim Scott,
has said that he wants to finish with
the market structure legislation by the
end of September. So, if all goes well,
then we could be looking at a second
bill signing in say October. And like
Bose said, that would be
pretty much the crypto industry's
wish list for having a clear legal
framework in the United States for both
stable coins and other crypto tokens.
So, it's really pretty amazing. I mean,
when I started this job, I'll just tell
you, one of my friends in Silicon Valley
said that,
you know, you may be able to get some AI
things done, but you'll never get
anything done on crypto. And and the
reason is because the entrenched
interests are too powerful and they'll
stop it. The banking lobby will stop it
or Elizabeth Warren will stop it or just
all the status quo players who could get
disrupted by blockchain based technology
will somehow find a way to stop it. And
that didn't happen. Like we've actually
now move forward. Genius is about to
become law. And I think Clarity is
looking like it's going to have the
votes in the Senate as well become law.
So, it's really pretty amazing how much
progress we've made in just 6 months.
And like both said, this really comes
down to President Trump's leadership. He
made the promises during the campaign to
prioritize crypto, to make the United
States the crypto capital of the planet.
And it was his negotiating skills and
deal making that made this all happen. I
mean, this past week has been a little
bit of a roller coaster. There were
reports over the last couple of days
that the whole thing was falling apart.
And would it happen? There was a moment.
I think this has been publicly reported
but give you some color on it is there
were 12 members of the house whose votes
were necessary to advance the bill to
this vote today and at a certain point
President Trump brought him into his
office the oval office and worked out
all the differences personally and
that's what put this bill over the top.
If it wasn't for the president's direct
involvement and action and understanding
of the issues, he listened to all the
concerns and he paid attention to the
ones that were real and then rebutted
the ones that weren't. If it wasn't for
his direct involvement, we would not be
here today.
And he understands crypto. He's involved
in it. Is uh seems to have an
understanding of the value of stable
coins for the US dollar. That seems to
be a key motivator for this being
bipartisan. you got a twice as many
Democrats as you thought you would get.
Is that because people want to make sure
the dollar supremacy gets locked in in
stable coins as a way to do that?
Because you can't have a stable coin
unless it's backed by a dollar.
Yeah. I mean, like I've talked about on
this show before, it shouldn't be that
hard to sell regulation to Democrats. I
mean, what we're doing here is providing
a regulatory framework for the industry.
They didn't have one before. And that's
why the number one stable coin player in
the world right now is an offshore
entity. They will have to come onshore
as part of this bill in the next 3
years. So what we're doing here is
creating a regulatory framework. But the
reason why it's substantially bipartisan
is because the industry wants this
regulation because they want the
stability it gives them in terms of
having that legal authorization.
They want to make sure that if you know
4 years, 8 years from now, 12 years from
now, whatever, there's not some new Gary
Gendler who comes in and turns the whole
industry upside down because he doesn't
like some aspect of what they're doing
and he just starts prosecuting them,
which is what the industry experienced
over the past four years with Biden's
war on crypto. So, we meaning that the
Trump administration could fix the the
Gendler issues just with agency
rulemaking, and we're certainly on that
path to do that. But if you want
long-term stability that goes beyond
just this administration, you have to
get legislation, you have to canonize it
into law. And that's why the industry
was so interested in getting these bills
passed. So I think that's why you're
seeing some bipartisanship here. Like
both said, I do think that there's a
substantial number of Democrats who
understand that this technology is the
future and it's a positive thing for the
US. What could be bad about allowing
digital dollars which extends the
dollar's dominance online so that it
basically bolsters the dollar status as
the world's reserve currency over time
as we get challengers from bricks for
example this is going to make the US
dollar stronger and every time a dollar
token trades somewhere in the world on a
crypto wallet there has to be a physical
dollar in a US bank account invested in
a US treasury And that creates demand
for our debt, which is another positive
thing. And there have been studies done
that show that the results of this bill
could be trillions of dollars of new
demand for our debt, which is only a
positive thing.
And if you don't allow a legal way to do
this and you don't have a proper
framework, you have you've been dancing
around this person who has three years
to get their act together. That's
Tether. I'll say it. You can type You
can do a search for Tether controversies
or uh shenanigans and you'll find plenty
of them. And I don't think it's fair to
say they don't have their act together.
I think they have their act together.
It's just that they did not know how
they'd be treated operating onshore in
the US under Gary Gendler and the Biden
administration. And so they operated
offshore and and and what was happening
under the last administration is that
the last administration by creating all
this uncertainty and doubt was driving
all the innovation offshore.
Okay, fine. I They have a sorted past.
That's my statement, not yours. But now
they have to clean up whatever messy
stuff they have in their past. That's me
saying it, not you. You can have your
opinion. I'll take mine. But I we're
we're in agreement that if you don't
have a framework, they would be doing
even more things that were maybe off the
reservation of my mind. Gavin, any
thoughts here on crypto? I'm not sure
you've participated in it particularly
because it didn't have a framework. Yes,
I would just say um one, David,
congratulations. Seems like an
incredible achievement. two, I try to
invest in areas where I feel like I I at
least believe I have some sort of uh
competitive advantage and it's not clear
to me that I have any sort of
competitive advantage in crypto. But
three, David, I am curious for the
stable coins. Is it does the Genius Act
limit them to dollarbacked stable coins?
So, it's not like you can create the
stable coin and then swap in something
other than a dollar. Is that is that
true?
Well, I mean, anybody can create a
stable coin that's backed by anything.
And in fact, I think there are like euro
backed stable coins out there, for
example, but nobody uses them. I think
if you look at the stable coin market
share, it's like 98% US dollars, 2%
euros, because there's a flight to
quality. I mean, everyone wants to use
the best one, right? And this is why
it's in the interest of the United
States to basically enable this
technology to continue flourishing is
because as the best fiat currency, we're
the one that's going to get used the
most. There's no reason to have multiple
fiat stable coins. Not really. So that
this is going to acr to the benefit of
the United States. Jake, I'll let me go
back to something you said. So I don't
necessarily agree with your criticisms
of of that particular company, but where
I I will agree is that this bill will
provide additional comfort for consumers
and additional protection for consumers
because now all the stable coin
companies will have to operate in the
United States. They'll be subjected to
quarterly audits and we will know that
every stable coin that's been issued is
fully reserved or backed up by a dollar
in a US bank account. And so therefore,
when a stable coin holder eventually
wants to cash out and they go to
basically an off-ramp,
the money will actually be there. Now,
I'm not saying that the money isn't
there with any of the current providers.
In fact, I think it is. But now
consumers will have the additional
protection and confidence to know that
all these entities have been audited.
They've passed these audits and they're
regulated entities under US law. And
that creates confidence for the market
and it's good for everybody and it will
spread the adoption of this stable coin
product.
And if they don't, they can't
participate in our market, right? So
that's the the good news here is, you
know, if you choose to not go through
those audits and you do a test stations
or other fugazi fugazi stuff offshore,
you know, not saying anybody's doing
that, but people have, you know, then
you just don't get to participate. And
and this is the great thing about having
some basic rules of the road. We should
talk a little bit here about
infrastructure sacks. You were in
Pittsburgh this week. There was some
announcements. This was another
bipartisan win. I think Shapiro was
there. a bunch of investment going on
there. Maybe tell us a little bit about
the progress made in Pittsburgh with
regards to AI and infrastructure.
This was a energy and innovation summit
that was organized by the Pennsylvania
Senator Dave McCormack and his wife um
Dina Pal McCormack and they did an
amazing job bringing together all of
these different companies and interests
that have a stake in energy in
Pennsylvania and and the development of
AI. And Pennsylvania is I think it's the
number two energy producing state in the
US. It has tremendous amounts of natural
gas. They feel like they can expand
that. I think there's been a lot of
fracking in the past there for example.
They even have nuclear Westinghouse is
there and it makes sense to have the
data centers near the power source,
right? And so we know that these big AI
data centers are going to be powered by
either natural gas or nuclear. And so
Pennsylvania just makes a lot of sense
as a place to build this AI
infrastructure. So this was a summit to
announce new investment in Pennsylvania,
something like $90 billion. President
Trump was there to keynote the summit
and talk about these investments. It's
his policies towards energy that he
started describing long ago. I mean
remember uh he made the campaign promise
of drill baby drill. He's been talking
about the need for energy expansion in
America for many years. And I think he
was very far-sighted in seeing that
energy is the basis for everything. It's
the basis for AI. It's the basis for all
other kinds of growth. So by promoting
energy dominance, we also get AI
dominance. And we've talked on this show
before about how we're going to need
that energy to power the electricity of
all these new AI data centers. So this
summit brought together all these
different groups. And the thing I
thought was really interesting, the
thing I learned from it was just how
diverse the business interests are that
are going to participate in this whole
AI boom. It wasn't just big tech. Yes,
Ruth Porf from Google was there. It's
also small tech. There was hardware
companies. There were robotics
companies, but there were also these
energy companies. There was nuclear.
There was gas. The trade associations
were there. It's construction. It's
electricians. It's carpenters. And so
there's a huge diverse array of
different parts of the economy that are
going to experience growth from this AI
boom that's taking place. It's not just
a Silicon Valley thing. So that was what
I took away from Pittsburgh and it was a
really cool experience being
I thought there were two interesting
notes as well. Hydro, I saw Google was
investing in hydro and upgrading some
dams there. This is I think Gavin one of
the great upshots of the AI boom is that
the AI companies whether it's Meta or
Google they're so motivated that they'll
actually go and upgrade the
infrastructure they'll invest in the you
know small modular nuclear reactors that
are coming
and uh even gas turbines obviously
natural gas as a major part of this as
well and you saw that up close and
personal with the buildout of Colossus.
TI gam.
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, electrical
production is fundamental to AI. If we
do not significantly increase kind of
domestic energy production and
electricity generation,
you know, we are already at a
disadvantage to China and I do think we
want to close that kind of electrical
generation gap as quickly as we can.
You know, and natural gas is great,
nuclear is great, solar's great,
batteries are great. We need it all.
Yeah. all of it.
And Sachs, I saw your favorite governor,
Josh Shapiro, was there and he was being
very positive about finding common
ground on energy, economic development,
and uh saying, "Hey, this is like a
great example of bipart bipartisan
efforts to collaborate." So maybe you
could talk a little bit about that
because you had two great moments of
collaboration between the Trump
administration and the Democrats. This
is uh this is good for the American
people. Yeah. both on the crypto project
and on AI in Pennsylvania.
I've never met Shapiro. I did see him
there at the event, but I didn't see him
on the stage. I don't know if he was
part of the round table, so I don't know
exactly what his status was. But
what's interesting about Pennsylvania
right now is that it's a state that's
turning red. And so you see that
Federman, who's probably the most
right-wing member of the Democrat party
in the Senate, and Josh Shapiro
obviously is tacking towards the center
because they see the direction of travel
in Pennsylvania. So yeah, I think you've
got some centrist Democrats in that
state.
Yeah, working out pretty well.
Josh Shapiro every two days tweets
something about how he's deregulated
something. He's made it easier to do
business. Like he is he's on the
program. seems like a sensible man.
Yeah, 100%.
I'll just give a final shout out to Bo
here for all the work that he did on
Genius. I mean, he's kind of the unsung
hero.
Bo, how are you uh how are you doing all
this while finishing up your degree?
When do you when do you graduate from
college?
The kid looks like he's 20 years old.
How old are you, Bo?
I have the baby face. I'm 29, turning 30
next month.
Look at you. 29 in the White House
leading and working with David Saxs.
This is a dream come true for you, huh?
It is. I mean, David's been incredible.
I've learned so much from him. Just the
way that he negotiates and the way that
his his brain works. It's been it's it's
been a blast just to be a part of it.
But I have a 10-month-old now, so I
should have bags under my eyes uh from
lack of sleep. But Jason, I'll make one
more point before I jump off on on the
Tether topic. Like the one thing that I
think your viewers should know is
this year they'll be the fourth largest
purchaser of US treasuries. And I think
that's something that, you know, we
should really contemplate. You know, I
agree with David's sentiment on this.
I'm excited to see what they do here in
the US. I'm glad they're going to be a
part of our system under the regulatory
regime, but so will everyone else. And I
think that's a great thing for our
country. It allows us to have control.
That's great that you guys are backing
them up because they've been banned so
many times by other governments. I'm
glad you got their act together. I'm
going to I'm going to keep on those
Tether guys until they get their act
together. So,
keep qualifying that you speak only for
yourself.
I only speak for myself. I've been
following that Tether story for a long
time and I think it's great.
I want to make this point. I always know
that our critics have never actually
watched the pod when they start talking
about the all-in point of view on
something, right? as if there's a
singular point of view uh from the
all-in pod. Like, you know, it's like
the all-in pros whoever think something
when anyone who's watched the show knows
that we've been fighting like cats and
dogs for years
and there's four distinct points of view
and sometimes we agree, but there's
almost always some disagreement. So,
we we've disagreed about this issue. We
also uh Trump and I, as you know, are
relentless supporters of Ukraine. We
believe we should be giving them weapons
and support. And David, you happen to
disagree with me and our president on
that. You've had a different position
historically.
So, here we are.
I'm going to stay in my lane on that
one.
David, can we talk about the H20s or
would you rather not? cuz I feel like
you have been like so dead right about
this
and I am you know I it seems like the
export um they're going to get the
licenses and that is 100% the right
decision for America and I do give you
credit for championing that. I'm happy
to talk about why I think it's great,
but we're just, you know,
can you frame it for a second for the
audience, Gavin, what we're talking
about here, Nvidia obviously was banned
from selling their latest and greatest
to China and even the last generation,
the H20s,
and obviously that creates u an opening
for Huawei and and other players to
create competitor products as opposed to
using the standards built here in
America. Yeah.
Well, I think I mean I think you said it
well, but first of all, it's not the
latest and greatest.
is not the latest and greatest. We're
not gonna
I don't think we're going to let the
latest
It's not even the last gen. It's a
deprecated version of the last
generation,
right?
Yeah.
So, remnants.
It's a less powerful version of the
Hopper chip and now they're on to
Blackwell. So, it's Anyway, Gavin can
explain. Yeah, it is. It's many many
years behind. But while it's many years
behind the kind of state-of-the-art here
in America, it is I think kind of
devilishly clever because let's call it
two years ahead of kind of the chips
from Huawei. And so it kind of gives
America an advantage while preventing
China from developing kind of a domestic
and biddy alternative. And the real
threat is cuz China they do have more
electricity. They can do things that we
cannot do here in America. You know, the
Blackwell racks are exquisitly designed
to be as power efficient as possible. If
you don't care about power, you can make
very different kind of design decisions.
Huawei has something called the Cloud
Matrix 384, which uses fiber optics
instead of copper to link the chips
together. And while it's not nearly as
power efficient as the Blackwell and
VL72,
they have all the power they need. And
so I think it's very it's it's it's a
smart decision for America to sell this
chip that gives America an advantage in
AI and keeps China from developing kind
of their own domestic alternatives which
could eventually kind of challenge, you
know, Nvidia, AMD, you know, other kind
of American AI accelerator champions
globally.
We don't want that h that to happen. So
I thought it was a mistake when they
banned the chips and I'm really happy
and thinks it's really good for America
if that is being reversed and kudos to
you. David
G, you said it so well. I don't think I
have anything to add.
Can I just say one thing on crypto? You
guys can put it in or not, but it I
thought it was interesting. David, I was
always worried about stable coins as a
risk to the dollar, but I think you make
a very good point that when you are the
dominant currency, they entrench the
dominance. And I just had not thought of
them that way.
Well, I think what's going to happen
with these dollar-based stable coins is
they'll start being used all over the
world. Let's say that you're in a
country, maybe it's a developing world
country where the fiat currency is not
trusted
and now all of a sudden you can transact
in dollars using a wallet on a phone,
you know, and the merchant also has a
wallet on a phone and now you can just
transact in dollars. you could see a
large portion of these economies
dollarizing from the bottom up because
again once you have your choice of fiat
currencies through stablecoin why
wouldn't you just use the best one
and that that's what I think is really
interesting so I do think it extends the
the dollar's dominance internationally
into the online
realm yeah and previously people were
basing their stable coins on a basket of
assets some treasuries some real estate
investments because they were seeking
yield Gavin So they would buy real
estate or you know short-term long-term
treasuries. They might put equities into
it. They might keep some cash and none
of that was known. And so that's where
this big fear came. Hey, these things
are getting pretty big. There's
obviously a demand to use this concept
of a stable coin. But what if there's a
run on the stable coins? And that was
always the big fear with various players
was what if everybody wants to withdraw
their stable coins? Are there enough
dollars or liquid assets in there? And
that's where I think certain players
have maybe, you know, moved the asset
allocation and in order to be in the US
market, Tether's going to have to be
100% in treasuries, right? They're not
going to be allowed to be, say, in real
estate. There was a, you know, concept
that maybe they were buying Chinese
paper for real estate back in the day
and people were concerned about that.
So, this cleans all that up and they
have an easy path, but you can't make
interest on it. That's actually a very
interesting portion of this. So that
will have to come at a later time so the
banks don't lose anything here. Right.
Well, just just clarify one point on
that. One of the concessions that was
made to community banks is not to have
an interest feature because the
community banks were worried that this
new stable coin industry would put them
out of business. I think that that fear
was wildly overblown on their part. I
don't think that's what's going to
happen remotely, but when you have a new
technology like this and a very
established industry, you can see why
maybe they'd be afraid. But the bill
allows for all sorts of marketing,
promotions, rebates, that kind of stuff.
So maybe it's not called interest, but
it there there are mechanisms to create,
let's say, rewards for stable coin
holders. So it's not as like black and
white as just, oh, there's like nothing
a stable coin issuer can do to attract
or incentivize or reward one of their
holders. It is a dimension they could
compete on. So maybe if I were to buy
$10,000 worth of a stable coin, I could
get mileage like points or maybe a
loadin gift card or
maybe I don't know. Yeah, we have to
interpret the language, but
the mechanism is there.
Okay. Well, there you have it, folks.
All right. Reporting from our capital,
David Saxs or Zar of AI and
cryptocurrency. I'll see you next
Wednesday in DC for a very important
summit.
All right, besties. I'm here at the
White House with Senator Bill Hagerty
from Tennessee, the principal author of
the Genius Act. He, I would say, along
with the leadership of President Trump
are the reason why this bill happened.
And we have stablecoin legislation just
signed into law by President Trump.
Bill, you did a phenomenal job. I got to
observe this whole process and you
really played the critical role. You
were a very skillful legislator crafting
delicate compromises. You were kind of
the glue that held the whole thing
together. Congratulations on getting
this done. Is this your first bill that
you've gotten done as a senator? It
it is. Um I I've served in the Senate
for over four years, but we were in the
minority for the past four years. So,
this is the first opportunity since the
Senate uh was taken by the Republicans
to actually drive legislation through.
And the fact that we had the House of
Representatives, the Senate, and the
White House made this possible. It was
just a threshold concern. We worked so
hard, as you know, to retake the Senate
in 2024, to retake the White House in
2024, and hold on to the House of
Representatives. It worked. And that's
the only thing that's enabled us to
deliver this type of meaningful
legislation. And I say this too, it's
been a great team that has done this. I
may be the author of the legislation,
but the leadership that you've brought
to bear from the White House coming in
and, you know, donating your time from
the private sector, working as a
volunteer here, but making certain that
the leadership and the vision is present
here in the executive branch. You've
been absolutely great. And that vision,
I think, has carried forward into the
Senate, the House. More and more people
are understanding this and catching on.
And I think what we've done today is
launch the catalyst for what's going to
make America the crypto capital of the
world.
Yeah, it's been it's been really amazing
and interesting for me to watch this
whole process. They say that you
shouldn't watch legislation or sausages
being made. But, you know, earlier in
the week, the media was reporting that
this bill was dead because there were a
dozen hold outs and President Trump made
calls late into the night. He gathered
people into the Oval Office. He
cajolled. He twisted arms and uh and he
also persuaded and he he got us over the
finish line. It was pretty incredible.
Well, I think the founding fathers made
it actually quite difficult to legislate
for a reason. But it is difficult. It's
taken months upon months to get to this
point and the legislation the the the
Genius Act has been killed a couple of
times in the media. Uh Elizabeth Warren
declared victory uh early on that she
killed the bill. That didn't happen. She
didn't have the juice to do it. But
there have been many many
that's a big deal because until now the
crypto community has been living under
Elizabeth Warren's reign of terror. I
mean she basically was calling the shots
during the Biden administration on
crypto and I was there when the Genius
Act passed the Senate. I was up in the
bleachers or whatever
and she was not happy. I mean you there
were photos of her and she she she did
not like losing.
There's there's a fundamental reason for
this David because Elizabeth Warren and
her crowd want to see a central bank
digital currency. What they want is
control of our transactions. They want
the ability, they're the ones that
wanted to go to a $600 threshold for
your Vinmo transactions, reporting
everything. They want the ability to do
choke point 3.0,
right?
And if you think about it, they had
visibility in our transactions, the
ability to centralize and control them.
They could control our lives. That may
be okay for the Chinese Communist Party,
but that's not going to work here in
America. And this legislation put the
final nail in the coffin to that.
It's really amazing that you got it
through. And to get this passed, the
Senate, you had to have 60 votes, right?
Because reconciliation, you only need 50
plus one. But for a regular order, I
guess to get past the potential for a
filibuster, you need 60.
That's exactly right. That's exact.
So, what demands did that put on you in
terms of getting Democrat votes? Because
the Republicans have what, 53?
Yes.
So, we didn't have all the Republicans.
We lost Republicans. But, but what
enabled me to get the other nine
Democrats to come on board was really an
education process because at its core,
this shouldn't be a partisan issue. This
is about taking America's payment system
into the 21st century. This is about
making our nation more competitive. This
is about great, you know, expanding
demand for the US Treasury securities
that we issue. This is about the
dominance of the US dollar. It's hard
not to like it. But I I think there's a
partisan bent here in Washington that's
so strong that their objective is just
to keep Republicans or Donald Trump or
David Sachs from from getting a win
here. And and through education and
through listening, and frankly, I don't
think it's my legislative skills. I
think it's the business skills that I
brought to the legislative branch. Uh I
think it's through the business skills
and the ability to negotiate that we've
actually gotten to this point today.
And so tell us about that. So before
this, you were a businessman, then you
became ambassador of Japan.
You met President Trump. You told him
you wanted to run for center of town. He
told the story up at the in his speech.
He said that uh you had learned Japanese
in like 6 months as
ambassador of Japan. It
it was a little longer than that.
Okay. There's a there's a piece of the
story missing because I I started my
career at a place called the Boston
Consulting Group and they sent me to
Tokyo for three years back in the late
80s early 90s. That's when I learned the
language. Um and to go back as US
ambassador to Japan under President
Trump in 2017, the honor of a lifetime.
I can tell you representing the greatest
nation in the world, any place in the
world is an honor. But particularly in a
region like that that has so much
strategic uh you know so many strategic
initiatives that are underway right now.
You think about this, Japan has more US
military station there than any place
else in the world. Japan is one of the
toughest environments in the world. If
you think about the neighborhood that
they're in, North Korea, Russia, China,
right at your doorstep. Uh the time that
I spent in as ambassador really helped
me dig in deeply in terms of the
national security issues that our nation
confronts and those that our allies
confront. At the same time, we did two
trade deals with Japan. Nobody thought
it could be done. Uh, and we were able
to navigate that, uh, with Jameson Greer
working right beside Bob Lighheiser. Um,
I loved working with those guys and we
got two great trade deals done. Jameson
is back now as the US trade
representative and I'm very optimistic
that we're going to see more trade
flourish. President Trump knows how to
do this. I've been with him in the trade
negotiations. He knows exactly how to
navigate this and I'm looking forward to
great results from our trade
negotiations as well.
Excellent. And so, we're only 6 months
into this administration. It feels like
so much has happened, so much has been
done. I mean, we just had the one big
beautiful bill. Now we have this
legislation. What's next in in your
view? What do you think is is going to
happen next?
What what's happening right now in the
United States Senate? We just put
through a recisions package for a little
bit over $9 billion. That's a that's a
small amount. It's a large amount of
money, of course, but it's a small
amount relative to the entire budget.
And the Democrats have had uh they
they've just uh gone apoplelectic over
this. Any any effort to cut back on
spending somehow they've got to be
against that. They're only for spending
and we're trying to bring physical
sanity back to America. So the focus is
going to be to continue to find
opportunities to basically legislate
what has been found at Doge. The other
activities well beyond Doge. Every
department head, every agency is looking
for ways to streamline regulations and
to cut cost and to operate more
efficiently. And I've got to believe
there are tremendous opportunities there
and many billions more dollars that'll
come out of the budget as a result. But
we we've gone into a fairly partisan
mode right now. And I think it's going
to be tough for the next little while.
While we're in this sort of partisan uh
gap, I think what we should be doing is
focusing on market structure for digital
assets and and we're working on that. I
just talked to some of my colleagues in
the House today about how we're going to
marshall that forward. I'm going to look
forward to your leadership there as well
and many people in the industry. But
just so everyone knows what that is. So
market structure is the legal framework.
It's the rules for all the crypto tokens
that are not stable coins. So the Genius
Act just passed that gave the legal
framework for stable coins. Now we got
market structure for all the other
tokens
and it deals with questions like what's
a crypto security, what's a currency,
what's a commodity, who regulates those
things. Just providing clarity.
That's the name of the bill.
So that market participants know what
the rules are because the last four
years under Gender, they're basically
prosecuted
without knowing, you know, how to how to
uh abide.
Yeah. They called it regulation by
enforcement. You don't know what the
rules are, but they just launched an
enforcement proceeding against you. I
mean, President Trump was funny today
because he looked at the audience. He
said, "I guess half of you were being
prosecuted here about a year ago by the
previous administration. Things are
going to change."
He was uh he was on fire today. I mean,
people should go back and watch. I mean,
he he spoke um off the cuff basically
like he normally does for 20 minutes and
was very funny. But part the reason why
he said that is when we did the crypto
summit at the White House back in March
the uh you know the Wlvoss brothers uh
Tyler and Cameron were there and they
told the story about how a year before
they thought it would be more likely
that they'd be at in the big house in
the White House that that it was like
the fact that they were at the White
House was
in the big house
because that's the way it was looking. I
mean they were dealing with so much
unfair lawfare but any event we've we
moved past that. So, thank you for your
leadership on this. And by the way, on
the recisions, I know that this is the
one issue that I think all of the hosts,
the four hosts of the all-in pod all
agree on is that
deficit spending is out of control.
Anything we can do to try and rein it in
and have more fiscal sanity is
appreciated. Even Calcanis can uh can
agree with that one. He's sort of like
the the token uh lib on the podcast.
I'm telling we're going to continue to
work along those lanes that the the big
beautiful bill is doing. It's oriented
toward growth stimulation, right?
Everything that that we can do to
stimulate more capital investment in the
United States is embodied in that in the
tax law as part of that bill. So with
the growth coming out of the big
beautiful bill and if we continue to go
through the cuts with recisions, I'm
very optimistic that we're going to get
back on the right path. That's the
objective. That's the goal. Meanwhile,
uh taking us into the 21st century with
our payments uh with digital assets,
we're going to continue to work along
those lanes as well. And I appreciate
your leadership in that regard.
Well, and we appreciate you. I think the
state of Tennessee, where, by the way, I
grew up, I grew up in Memphis, uh, is
very lucky to have you as their senator.
Uh, the Republican party is really lucky
to have you. The Senate is very lucky to
have you, to have someone with your
business background, to have your skills
who has now gotten through this first
piece of legislation through, again,
this wasn't a budget bill. It took 60
votes in the Senate. I mean, when's the
last time that even happened? I mean,
it's been years. Uh,
I heard the Senate Bank Committee I
mean, I heard they hadn't passed a bill
in like 10 years, basically, because it
takes 60. It's been over 10 years to get
out of the Senate Banking, but one of my
friends wrote me yesterday and he said,
"I I didn't think you could get the Ten
Commandments passed out of the United
States Senate." So, congratulations. And
I I I don't want to take the the credit
for it because it's been a wonderful
team. As I said, your leadership in the
White House and the executive branch,
our friends in the House of
Representatives, my great staff led by
Luke Pettit done just a terrific job.
Luke Pettit was amazing. We worked
closely with him. Um Bo, yeah, who's the
director of the crypto council who was
on the show earlier today.
Tyler was wonderful at Treasure.
Yep. Tyler Williams at at Treasury, who
was Secretary Besson's um staff person.
The staff never get the credit they
deserve for all the work they do, right?
But but Tyler, Luke, and um and Bo were
amazing through this process.
And and in the Senate, too, we we've had
great leadership. Our chairman for the
Senate Banking Committee is Tim Scott.
He's been a true proponent of this.
Cynthia Lumis is is very focused on on
on digital assets, was very supportive
of me as she chairs the digital asset
subcommittee of our banking committee.
So, we've had great support in the
Senate and I think it's going to
continue to grow both sides of the
aisle.
Uh, Cynthia Lumis, she's been great.
I've met with her many times. Tim
Scott's been great. Um, I understand
that Kristen Gillibrand, the Democrat
from New York, great to work with.
She brought in a lot of Democrat votes.
I think you got 18. You know,
the great thing about Kristen, too, is
she was a Wall Street lawyer at Davis
Pulk. She understands the the markets
and to have her level of technical
expertise was a huge asset and she was
able to to really convey to the Democrat
side uh that we were here trying to get
the right thing done for the country.
This was not a partisan effort. This was
something that really is aimed at growth
uh leadership, technology leadership and
frankly dollar dominance that we all
should be for.
Amazing. And so I think it's really
amazing that we got this done. When you
compare this to where we were a year
ago, I mean it was non-stop. uh I guess
regulation by enforcement is basically
regulation through prosecution lawfare
and the crypto community was being
driven offshore there there wouldn't
have been a crypto community in the
United States and then President Trump
won the election and now thanks to the
efforts of Bill and and others it's law
the the Genius Act is now law we have a
legal framework for stable coins and
market structure is next the Clarity
bill is next we're going to try and do
that by October so it's really amazing
that this is a you know I thought that
working for President Trump would be a
once in a lifetime opportunity because
he's a president who really wants to get
things done and that's what's happening.
It's really been amazing.
So, thank you, Bill, for being here.
Great. Appreciate it.
We'll let your winners ride.
Rainman David
and it said,
"We open sourced it to the fans and
they've just gone crazy with it." Love
you.
[Music]
Besties are gone.
That is my dog taking notice your
driveways.
Oh man, my appetiter will be up.
We should all just get a room and just
have one big huge orgy cuz they're all
just useless. It's like this like sexual
tension that we just need to release
somehow.
Your feet.
We need to get mer.
[Music]
I'm going all in.