# Podcast Transcript
# Show: All-In with Chamath, Jason, Sacks & Friedberg
# Episode: Big Beautiful Bill, Elon/Trump, Dollar Down Big, Harvard's Money Problems, Figma IPO
# YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PS76GPJAKq0
# Downloaded: 2025-07-19 20:58:10

All right, welcome to the show
everybody. Number one podcast in the
world and uh man going to be really
exciting come September, September 7th
Days at 9th, the All-In Summit in its
fourth year this week. Um doing
Freedberg's job for him because he's
been a little bit busy. Lockdown
is in uh looks like Jason, what are you
in? Why are you doing this? Cut. Nick
beep.
Every year you pre-announce a bunch of
people who don't show up. It's literally
you literally pick people who don't. I
got Elon to come three out of three
years. I have gotten a couple of
trillion dollars in market cap for your
freeberg. Um and more to come. Don't
worry about it. Don't worry about it.
This year is going to be better than
ever. Better than ever.
Allin.com/summit.
And
lots of exciting news around the tequila
boys. Freeird. Did you see MSN covered
me sending a case of the tequila to
Bezos? I didn't see that.
What do we do now?
[Music]
Let your winners ride.
[Music]
We open source it to the fans and
they've just gone crazy with it.
We've uh been crushed with orders.
Apologies if we're taking a little bit
of time with customer support. Uh, but
you can go to tequila.allin.com.
Deliveries begin in late summer, right
around the time I think of the uh,
summit. Greenberg and I were in Las
Vegas this past weekend. It was a blast
as always. We had a really good time. We
had 20 of our besties or so with us. No,
great. Great time. It was great. Good
time. I wish I could have been there,
but I was on the Snake River doing a
little invite. I was in What were you
talking about? I was getting lobbyed
like cancel your family trip whitewater
rafting to come to Vegas. I was like
yeah I don't remember inviting you free
bird. Do you remember?
Trust me people when you go to Vegas you
want Jal. Jayl was a good time in Vegas
but I didn't
got a lot of invites but I Nick pull up
the picture. I was on the Snake River
there. I was doing my white water
rafting trip and so if you're ever
interested in um doing a fun trip with
your family you can do these two three
night occasions. Yeah. No, I'm not. You
camp on the side. You eat mid food.
Yeah. You don't shower for three days
and you four days. But yeah, there's the
view from the Snake River. It was
absolutely stunning.
And uh yeah, we Is that where is Snake
River? Is that also where like Snake
River Farms comes from? You know, the
high quality meat? Yes, I'm sure it is.
Uh Idaho
border. Yeah, Idaho border. So that is
Yeah, that's that's where Snake River
Farms is. Not as good as Long Hill Wagu,
but you know. Yeah. I mean, listen,
these are that's like two elite steak
producers. Get the Koulette, aka the
pana. All right, listen. The uh BBB has
passed the Senate. Let's get into this
docket, but there was a bit of drama in
the House after an allnight session and
over 24 hours of deliberation. Senate
passed the big beautiful bill on
Tuesday.
Friend of the pod JD Vance cast the
tiebreaking vote after a 50/50 deadlock.
Three Republicans voted no and uh Trump
won over Senator Ron Johnson. On this
very podcast, he said he would be a no
unless more spending was cut. There were
significant changes to the bill. We'll
get into that in a minute. And so, it's
got to pass the House again before Trump
can sign into law. Lots of drama. Trump
set the deadline for July 4th, which is
Friday when you're listening to this.
And it will, in all likelihood, get
there. According to Poly Market, there
is a 96% chance the bill will pass by
Thursday and a 97% chance it'll pass by
Friday, July 4th, Independence Day, the
day we publish. So, it looks like it's
pretty much a lock. Some uh big changes
in the Senate. Biggest change, the
10-year AI regulation moratorium, which
we're going to talk about for states was
removed. Ted Cruz tried to negotiate
cutting it to 5 years. Suggestion I made
10 years was a little bit too long for
folks, but that didn't work. According
to an NGO called National Conference of
State Legislatores, over a thousand
bills related to AI have been filed by
state lawmakers in 2025. So expect a lot
of state-by-state AI regulation. I think
this is a good place to stop. We don't
have Saxs here to talk about AI
regulation, but he talked about it the
last time. Fraberg, your thoughts on
states. You know, we talked about state
rights here in relation to abortion,
guns, gun regulations, cannabis, many
different, you know, debates over who
should get to decide for the country.
Where do you stand on this one? Should
states have a voice in how AI is
deployed in their, you know, borders,
uh, within their borders, or should the
federal government take this, and if so,
for how many years? Because that seemed
to be a sticking point.
Look, I I'm a big believer in the
construct of our federated republic in
the United States where states can
operate with as much kind of discretion
as they choose to with the laws that
they pass and how they intend to govern.
There are however things that affect
more than the state. We have interstate
commerce. We have international
commerce. We have the open internet. And
we have a lot of other systems at play
here that extend beyond the boundaries
of a state. And the way that AI tools
and AI systems and AI services and AI
related jobs are being deployed and
activated. I do think it's critical that
we treat AI regulation at a national
level, at a federal level. To date,
there have been, I believe, 70 state
laws or statutes passed thus far in the
United States with, I think, over a
thousand having been proposed to date,
if the numbers are right. And having a
patchwork of regulations on, for
example, model development or telling
software companies what software they
can deploy would make it practically
impossible for internet service
providers like a Google or an OpenAI to
service customers across state
boundaries
in a way that is actually going to meet
the needs of the customer. This is a
huge detriment to consumers and a huge
detriment to the job market if we end up
creating a patchwork of regulations on
AI this early. One of the things that I
would point out is that much of the
early legislation like for example what
we saw in California, if you read that
legislation that did not get signed by
Gavin Newsome in California, there was a
definition on model parameters being a a
boundary condition for whether or not
something would go through a regulatory
review process. That was such a naive
assertion that early in the phase of AI
technology development. And think about
the implication was okay well everything
is LLMs but there's other models like
vision action models that are going to
be used in robotics models that might be
used in predicting and driving physical
systems like in
self-driving cars for example. So the
way that the regulation gets written
will often be done in a naive context in
a limited fashion by regulators that
don't fully understand the breadth of
the technology that's coming our way.
And I do think that it needs to be kind
of leveled up and allowed to operate at
a federal level. So I think it is
absolutely critical not just for
technology companies, not just for the
industry, but for the opportunity for
job creation, for improving the economy,
for driving GDP and productivity growth
that we get something passed that forces
AI regulation to be done at a federal
level. Even though I generally agree
that states should be able to
self-govern, this just has too much of a
interstate and global interaction. That
was the biggest disappointment for me in
the negotiation that's gone on with this
bill is that of all the things that I
thought were going to be passed that I
thought were maybe not ideal, getting
this AI federal preeemption in that bill
was probably the best thing, the top of
the list for me in terms of critically
important for the US economy. Yeah,
Chimat, your thoughts here? Obviously,
abortion is like an interesting one to
look at because that went to the states
in furtherance of Freeberg's,
you know, position here. You have just
many different rules and regulations
between Texas, Oklahoma, whatever it is.
Everybody's got a different view. It's
chaotic and we don't have a singular
point of view on it. Therefore, women in
one state have very different rules than
in another state. So, where did you fall
on this one? Federal legislation or is
it just going to take more time to
figure this out? I mean, that that's
another I guess angle here. Yeah, this
is nothing like abortion. Okay. Abortion
is an individual issue between a woman,
her doctor, her partner,
her god.
And so
a state being able to have rules
and then allowing that woman to choose
which state she can go to is quite
reasonable because I think that it
acknowledges that there's no
oneizefits-all.
So that is clearly a state issue.
But the reality is that AI is of
national security importance.
It is the tip of the spear of our
ability to have technological supremacy.
That is how we have economic supremacy.
And so not governing it at the federal
level, I think, is a mistake. And it
makes as much sense for states to
legislate AI as it would make sense for
states
to have competitive
armies. It doesn't make sense. There are
certain things that are just so
fundamentally primary to American
supremacy and safety and security that
it needs to be regulated at the federal
level and I think AI needs to be at the
top of that list. So I was disappointed
that we weren't able to see the forest
from the trees here. Now I'm sensitive
to part of the reasons why
many of the states have very specific
issues around child safety that they
mentioned in Tennessee. There was a lot
about copyright ownership related to
musicians and their content. I get all
of that. Those are legitimate things
that need to get ironed out, but I think
that it could have been done in a
federal framework. Not having it, I
think the risk is that if you have 50
different sets of regulation, and it
won't even just be 50, as Freebick said,
it's going to be, you know, all kinds of
pet organizations that pop up in all of
these states. What happens? I think what
it does is it slows down startups and
smaller companies who won't have the
economic heft to fight these regulations
or to work with them or to figure it out
and it'll advantage a handful of
incumbents. And the problem with that is
that our incumbents aren't yet mature
and this industry is still developing.
So I think this is um this is one of the
unfortunate parts of what is otherwise a
a pretty reasonable bill.
Well, you uh can look at gambling, I
guess, and cannabis legislation. These
are things that Americans largely want
to do, and they are fighting their way
state by state. And at some point, we
may have a federal regulation about
online gambling, right? Uh right now,
it's a patchwork. Same thing with
cannabis, psychedelics, all a patchwork
of different states. Why do you lump
together things that are about
individual rights with AI, which I I
don't think is I don't think is about
that. People might look at the rights of
rights holders, cars, these AI things
are going to hit people on an individual
level. So I I think when you bring this
up this topic, there are people who feel
this is an individual sovereignty issue,
right? But you know there are other
issues of individual sovereignty like
the ability to take drugs and there's
still federal mandates that come through
the FDA. You know, you're not allowed to
short circuit or circumvent that
framework at a state-by-st state level.
Yeah, that that actually is at the core
of the cannabis debate is would they
enforce the federal laws on cannabis and
they haven't, right? So that was I'm
talking about more as it relates to AI.
Sure. You know,
because AI means everything. I think
that's what makes this issue very
difficult. AI is going to affect
everything, right? So probably the
people who want to slow this down and
have the states do it are saying let the
states have their say on these granular
issues. I'm not saying this is my
position, but I think that's what I'm
reading into their position. Hey, this
is going to affect different states in
different ways. Let them figure it out.
Take some time and then we'll build
towards a a framework nationally, which
I think is what happened with the
internet in section 230 as well.
Although I don't know the entire history
of it, we did come up with an idea that
hey, the federal government makes it
common carrier to, you know, anybody can
post anything on a website and then, you
know, you can request to take it down.
That was federal legislation. those
things could have been held also on a
individual basis and then what would
have happened for the internet you would
have to have AOL or Geocities have a
different patchwork like you're saying
in regulations. So I'm guessing the
states probably do want to have a say on
self-driving that one specifically and I
don't know if they're wrong. What do you
think on self-driving? Should it be
federal? I mean that's like an
interesting lens to look at it through.
I don't know the details well enough. It
seems to me that self-driving touches
both the states and the federal. Sure.
Federal highways and local roads. Yeah.
So, but just from first principles, you
know, there's self-driving cars now in
Palo Alto going up to the city from
Whimo, you got Austin, you got three
different providers. Should this should
the city, the state have a say in that?
Kind of feels like they should. Yeah.
Sure. Yeah. So, I mean, I think that I
don't I don't think a city has any idea
how to regulate a model. No, that's
where it's obvious. The other side like
how would they ever even know? And
another piece that's in flux and has
been changing is energy policy, solar,
EV credits, and uh maybe even
disincentives,
the $7,500 credit for buying cars, and
then also a carbon credits and a fee of
$250 for everybody who owns an EV every
year. Freeberg, maybe you could talk a
little bit about this part of the debate
because we've been spending and hitting
incredible goals as a country in getting
more renewables, more energy online, but
that comes at a cost, right? And so that
is a big part of the debate here. And
that obviously is something that impacts
Elon, and we'll get to him in a moment,
but that impacts Elon and Trump's
relationship in a major way.
The old school motivation and incentive
for what people would call green energy
or green tech was to decarbonize
electricity production and develop and
deploy at scale these new technologies
at the time like wind and solar as an
alternative to carbon based technologies
that put carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere like oil and coal and gas.
So, the IRA, the Inflation Reduction
Act, created tremendous government
incentives for building solar and wind
farms to create electricity in the
United States.
This proposal that's been going back and
forth in this bill and some of the
debate that's triggered many folks
online to denounce the bill takes away
those incentives, takes away those
credits, takes away the EV tax credit
starting in September, as an example.
Why can't they do these in digestible
chunks? It should be no more than 300
pages per bill, no more than x number of
issues and break. Good conversation to
have. Good conversation to have another
time, but we should talk to people on
Congress. But there's a very specific
reason why because of the uh the log jam
that happens with the filibuster. So, it
makes it impossible to get things done
in that traditional context. So what's
happened in the last couple years is you
end up with these massive massive mega
bills where they jam everything into one
bill that they can pass with 50 votes
and then 51 votes they make these last
minute changes and then it all gets dark
there's there's no rigorous debate
there's no transparency into what's
going on and why and so the second
argument away from the green stuff is
the more modern stuff which I've made
and I know Chimath agrees with me on
this which is we have to increase
electricity production in this country
the current plan has been to move from 1
to two terowatts by 2040. Meanwhile,
China's moving from 3 to 8. And China is
adding an entire United States and
electricity production capacity every 18
months right now. They are so far ahead
of us. And ultimately, electricity
production is what drops the price for
things and increases jobs, increases
GDP, increases your ability to make
stuff. And so the more electricity
production comes online, the more we
will be able to be sufficient in an AI
point. Now the secretary of energy uh
secretary Wright gave an interview and
he said we have more than enough
capacity with uh gas, oil and coal and
nuclear. And so his argument at this
point is that we don't need to subsidize
solar and wind where the government pays
for these programs and private equity
investors can make money on them. This
is a big part of the argument he's
making. I'm not making it. But he's
saying this will drive traditional
energy investments in traditional
systems that we can scale up quickly to
meet our energy production goals. Now, I
will say from my point of view, I'm not
a huge fan of being dependent on
government subsidized energy at all. So,
if the government is having to play a
role in funding stuff, there's something
really questionable in terms of our
sustainability on that energy production
source over time. Will it actually be
able to make more of it? Because what
you want is not just to make a bunch of
energy in the next six years or 12
years. You want to make sure that you've
got an engine for creating new energy
production on a continuous basis. So we
climb nonlinearly the energy production
curve. That's what we need to do. And I
hope that one of the key outputs of
this, which a lot of people are really
unhappy about the the loss of the demand
for solar and wind because of the loss
of the government uh programs here. But
what I'm hopeful for is it creates a
natural market force for nuclear and
that we actually see a better
proliferation in nuclear which Secretary
Wright has said and President Trump
signed these EOS a couple weeks ago to
reduce the regulatory burden on nuclear
and increase the ability for nuclear to
proliferate much more quickly than has
been the case historically. So I while a
lot of people are saying hey this is
going to take away all this energy
production capacity that's coming online
in the next few years or supposed to.
The counterargument is we're going to
create a natural market force because
the energy demand will still be there.
So someone's going to show up and say,
"Hey, I want to make electricity because
there's so much demand for it." And
maybe they say, "Hey, let's try this new
nuclear dereg system and see if we can
get it to work." And so I don't know,
the jury is absolutely out. We have not
seen this energy proliferation begin in
this country. But I do think one of the
potential benefits of removing those
clean energy tax credits is that we
actually see natural market forces drive
demand for a more naturally sustainable,
scalable energy production source. Your
thoughts? I announced this a few weeks
ago, but I dipped my toe into real
estate. I've never done real estate
before, but just outside of Phoenix,
we're building a 1 gawatt data center.
That's a $25 billion total investment
cycle of which we'll be into it for 2 or
3 billion of equity when it's probably
all said and done.
What I can tell you is the reason why
you can underwrite that deal or why I
was able to underwrite the deal was
it's located downstream of a nuclear
reactor and so there's effectively
infinite energy that we can tap but we
still need gas and a bunch of other
things. The problem is that, you know,
if we put in an order right now, we
can't get an A gas turbine
viable and turned on until 2030. It's
not a technology issue. It's purely a
supply chain issue. So, I think what our
energy policy needs to make sure we
contemplate is that many of the things
that we are debating are no longer
issues of production, but they're issues
of supply, transmission, and
distribution. And as long as we can make
sure that
we
allow energy to be made wherever and
whenever possible and then stored
however possible will be on the forward
foot. The big risk is that if we
don't have that ability and then all of
a sudden we have these incredible
achievements in technology in robotics
and we don't have the electricity to
power them. That's the big risk. As long
as we can fix that, I still worry that
with nuclear, the issue won't be the
federal regulations. I think that it's
good that the president cleaned it up.
The real problem is going to be the
local and state regulators and how
quickly they're willing to turn these
on. And the reality is that, you know,
these are 10-year projects. And so even
if you say go from today, the earliest
these things can be turned on really in
2032, 2033. That's far too late. And
that's a lot of risk too, Chimath,
because what if you get blocked at the
last minute? This is where solar and
other projects, you know, we're big as
well. I'll tell you a story. In 2020,
right before the pandemic,
I I don't even know if I should say the
name of the company, but I almost went
after a coal company to buy it. And I
had been obsessed with this company for
a year. And it was cheap. It fell on
hard times. It was like a billion two, a
billion three. And my team went up in
arms. They were like, "Oh my god, it's
so dirty. you can't own a coal company
and it was such a huge miss on my part.
I should have just bought the bloody
thing. Then we went into co then you
know everything went upside down and lo
and behold that company's like
quintupled since then. So I'm a fan of
all forms of energy production. I think
the marginal cost of energy has to go to
zero which means that any single way you
can get your hands on electricity
production
is a winning trade over the next 20
years in the United States. This is I
was trying to wrap my head around people
saying, "Oh, we shouldn't buy all these
solar panels out of China because China
is making them so cheaply and our trade
imbalance, etc." And I was like, "Well,
wait a second. What's more important?
The trade imbalance and giving China
some money for solar panels. We're
getting more solar panels to Arizona,
you know, to Utah." Look, let's take the
subsidies off the table. Ultimately, you
don't want any of these markets
subsidized. The reality is it is faster
and more efficient to put solar panels
up and start generating electricity.
It's just that it's like 17 months from
start to finish. 17 months. So that's
probably in my opinion the single most
valuable underwriting feature of solar
which is you put a dollar in, you can
start generating revenue in 17 months
from that dollar going in. That's very
different than when you're putting a
dollar in and you're not going to see it
back for a decade plus. That's scary.
And so you need to generate a rate of
return that justifies a 10 or 15 year
investment cycle.
And that's hard to do because there's a
lot of volatility in the world and
things can go, you know, down as well as
up. So I don't know. My my perspective
is get rid of all the subsidies at this
point. Create a clean slate, but don't
do anything to hinder the production of
electricity because we need literally as
much of it as we can get our hands on.
And then we need to find a way of
storing it in a safe way and then we're
off to the races. And the battery
technology freeberg is just keeps making
great incremental process pro progress
in terms of cost you know just going
down what 15%. Jason I have a question
for you. Yeah. How many days a year do
you think California
is in an energy deficit? How many days a
year is California in an energy deficit?
Doesn't have enough energy. It would be
during the summer months. You know where
electricity prices go crazy where they
have to find all kinds of ways of
generating massive amounts of base load.
How many like a third of the time 100?
Five. That's it. Wow. So we've really
made progress. We you know in California
our grid is on average about between 45
and 50% utilized. This is for PG& I
don't know what it's like for SoCal
Edison. Yeah. Down south. The point I'm
trying to make is that in normal market
conditions for residential, we have
tremendous amounts of power and for most
needs, we have tremendous supply.
So things can be pretty good. The
problem is all of the stuff downstream
from the making of it. And if we don't
clean that up, we're going to create
these artificial constraints that will
come back to bite us when we really need
the power to do something very exciting.
Yeah. All right. Uh, let's move on to
Elon and Trump's relationship. Everybody
wants to hear our take on what's going
on between Elon and Trump in relation to
this bill. We took a pass on it last
time, uh, but we'll take a swing at it
now. Uh, obviously there's been a bit of
back and forth between, uh, two of our
friends, friends of the show, both Elon
and uh, Trump are Are you friends with
Trump, Jacob? Well, I'm I'm speaking on
behalf of the show. Um, I have never met
Trump in person, but I did interview him
on behalf of me and sex. But on behalf
of the show, listen, you guys are all
team Trump
and sex. Yeah. Well, you're team Trump,
too. Elon has I'm not I'm not I've never
met the guy. You've never met in the
White House. You took pictures in the
White House. Never met the guy. Never
met him. Never met in person. Okay.
Spent time in the White House, but
didn't meet him. Okay, no problem. Yeah.
Anyway, Elon has come out hard against
this bill. He tweeted, "It is obvious
with the insane spending of this bill,
which increases the debt ceiling by a
record $5 trillion, that we live in a
one party country, the Porky Pig Party.
Time for a new political party that
actually cares about the people." This
escalated a bit, but this isn't as bad
as the first time around. When um asked
if he would deport Elon, Trump said, "I
don't know. We'll have to take a look."
And said he might stick Doge on Elon
since he gets a lot of subsidies.
Freeberg, we skipped talking about it
because it was uh I think a bit chaotic
last time, but this time I think maybe
we'll chime in a bit. Things aren't as
hot right now and the bill is going to
get through. So, let's take a swing at
it. What are your thoughts, Freeberg, on
the kfluffle, the Donny Brook, the
bruhaha between Elon and President
Trump? There's a lot of people that are
making accurate declarations that
federal spending needs to be reduced,
the deficit needs to be shrunk. we are
in a debt death spiral and they are
absolutely correct. So I don't think
that Elon is off the reservation when he
makes those comments and he's talked
about this continuously and he dedicated
months of his life to operating Doge and
trying to bring to light some of the
extraordinary operating inefficiencies
in the federal government that should be
addressed. And I think you know we'll
see what happens. jury still out. For
those actions to get permanent, they I
believe need to mandate them in a
appropriations bill. And the White House
has publicly declared that they are
going to move forward with an
appropriations bill to try and cement
some of the Doge actions. So I'm
hopeful, but I think Elon's right with
respect to the spending. I will provide
the voice I have heard publicly stated
from the alternative view from the White
House, which is this is not the bill to
do that because it mostly focuses on
these mandatory spending programs and
they are addressing cost savings to some
degree in these mandatory spending
programs while keeping the tax rates
where they are or reducing tax rates in
some cases which the expectation is will
stimulate GDP growth. So the White House
view is also a view that you could look
at and say economically I could see a
path here that does make sense. You're
reducing spending only on mandatory
programs. You're going to come back with
an appropriations bill to address
discretionary spending. And then the
final kind of action that the White
House might take which we've heard about
separately is empoundment that at the
end of the fiscal year they may come
back and say all the money that we saved
by not spending it we can actually
recover through empoundment. And the CBO
has not accounted for tariff revenue.
And just looking at the recent deal done
with Vietnam, Vietnam's about $130
billion a year of uh imports to the
United States. And they did a deal that
they announced two days ago with a 20%
tariff on Vietnam, which you know, if
Vietnam's import volume does not
increase, is about 26 billion a year of
incremental revenue for the federal
government. So there's an argument that
Bessant and Lutnik and others are making
that you guys have failed to recognize
that we've got a few other things we
have up our sleeve that we're going to
do. We're going to do empoundment. We're
going to do this appropriations bill.
We've got more revenue coming in. Net
net, we will get the deficit down to
where we need to be. In fact, Scott
Besson was on TV saying over and over,
"We're going to get the deficit below 3%
of GDP," which is the key target here.
But the immediate reaction to this bill,
I think that Elon is having is the same
that I've had and it is the same that
Senator Johnson had and is the same that
many others have had, which is what the
f are we doing? We are in a fiscal
emergency in this country and we're not
addressing it. So, I think both points
of view can be valid and both sides can
have a good kind of argument for why the
bill should be passed and why the bill
shouldn't be passed. The White House has
declared that this is the only way
they're going to get some of the
programs done that they believe they
need to get done for national security
like the ICE border stuff. And these are
things that they believe they need to
get done. But a lot of folks are looking
at the numbers and saying this just
isn't enough and you're now increasing
the deficit by cutting taxes. One of the
things the CBO does not do though is
they don't have a strong model and
there's a ton of economic debate on this
point which is how did tax cuts
stimulate GDP growth and job creation
and income growth for people with jobs.
The one argument is when you cut taxes
more dollars flow into the economy more
jobs are created. More businesses are
created but GDP grows. Income for other
people grows. The alternative argument
is it's a tax cut for the rich. What are
you doing? they're going to put that
money in their pocket. It's only going
to benefit themselves. So that's I think
a key crux in the argument that you'll
never get to a resolution on. The one
side will use that one argument and the
other side will use the other argument.
So look, I mean with respect to Elon and
Trump, I will say one thing very
importantly. I don't think MAGA can
exist successfully without the tech
alignment. I don't think tech can exist
without MAGA because of the government
alignment and the importance of the
government allowing these new
technologies like AI to come to market
and to proliferate. I don't think that
these two can exist in isolation and in
conflict with one another. Elon is the
deacto king of tech. He is the person
that is saying look if I'm in conflict
with Trump tech is in conflict with
Trump or that at least that is the
perception on the MAGA side. And I think
that that is very risky for both sides
to allow a conflict to kind of endure.
And I do think that both sides have
heads that are going to be cooler that
will prevail here. And I do think that
these two are going to recognize the
importance of being codependent, if you
will in being able to progress their
respective agendas. Chimath, your
thoughts on the Kurfluffle
seem to be winding down and maybe
reaching some sort of endgame. It feels
like we're in some sort of an endgame
here. And if there is one, what is it?
I mean, I think it's just important to
recognize that on the one side you have
the most powerful person in the world
and on the other side you have the most
important powerful entrepreneur and
richest man in the world. And when you
have people that are that accomplished,
it's not as if you're going to get along
100% of the time. So I think a lot of
the breathlessness around all of this
stuff is overblown. I think the reality
is that when push comes to shove, I
think that they agree on more things
than they probably disagree.
And I think when everybody realizes that
the alternative is essentially
some insane form of socialism and
redistribution,
I think the alliance will hold
and that they'll find some common
ground. Jason, what do you think? Well,
I think you're right. These two
individuals are used to speaking their
mind and they're both really good at
social media and then there's no better
media cycle than covering the two of
them battling it out and trading barbs.
But I think what Elon did this cycle was
really interesting. He started a
preference stack
for Trump and that cascade, preference
cascade, preference stack, however you
want to phrase it, you know, I think
played a large role, if not the role in
getting Trump elected. People can debate
that. I don't know that you can
perfectly know what that $250 million
and all that effort he put in, you know,
what that did in terms of Trump's
chances. Trump probably would have won
anyway versus Kamla, but maybe not.
Putting that aside, the platform Elon
has refined during this political cycle
is one that resonates and I think it's a
really good idea for him to maybe if
he's going to be involved in politics,
pull that string and just crisply define
it. And I was thinking about it over the
last couple days and I think it hits
into four basic groups. Balance budget
and government efficiency. That's kind
of one. fiscal responsibility,
sustainable energy, which obviously he's
been passionate about, and he's the
leader in solar, batteries, EVs, and
then manufacturing in the United States,
which he also is the leader in, and
pronatalism, and just, you know, the uh
the population crisis. He he really
cares about those four issues. So what I
think he should do is take that America
pack and instead of making it like just
pro MAGA, he should just clearly define
what it is that he believes. Small set
of issues and then he should go and back
the people who are running to to be in
Congress and senators and just say,
"Hey, here is what I would like you to
be in favor of." And do what Norquist
did with his no new taxes pledge. Do
some sort of pledge like that. I don't
know if it needs to be a new party, but
just really crisply define what matters
to him. If he's going to be involved in
politics, then get people to agree on
it. And if he wants to give them
donations, as is his right, as is his
pack's right, to raise money, he could
represent, I think, a very world
positive view. Sustainable energy, just
incredible execution, and a really
efficient government. He should
technical excellence, technical
excellence, excellence at large. And
America, just go for it. and and and it
doesn't have to be personal against
Trump. One of the big problems with
Trump is he he has a bunch of sick
offense around him and the more you kind
of appease him and just blindly follow
him, I think the closer you the
perception is that's the closer you get
to him. I don't know that that's true. I
think he likes debating stuff. So, I
think he should embrace the people who
debate it with him and then those people
should just crisply say, "Here's what I
stand for and I'm putting my money
behind it. I hope we're in alignment,
but I'm going to stay in my lane and I'm
going to prioritize what matters to me.
And Elon's priorities are exceptionally
sharp and well-defined, and he should
pursue them. Yeah. Jury's out on where
this ends up and the broader picture.
You guys will get annoyed because I've
talked about Ray Dalio so much, but I
think he's done an amazing job in the
last 5 years basically explaining
everything we've seen from global
conflict to the internal conflict, the
rise of socialism in the US and the
relationship to the debt and deficit
cycle. He just posted on Twitter
yesterday that he went to DC to discuss
the budget deficit with senior people on
both sides of the aisle. and he said,
"It's clear to me that we are unlikely
to change the debt trajectory we're on
and avoid the painful consequences." And
he talked a lot about this concept of
absolutist politics. And this is the
same reaction I've had every time I've
gone to DC and we've met with members of
Congress. And if you guys remember from
the beginning, I said Doge isn't going
to be it. As much as Elon can identify
and resolve to a better way of operating
the federal government's agencies, you
cannot change the spending without a
change in statute from Congress. You
have to get Congress to act. And every
time I met with members of Congress,
their incentive is to keep the money
flowing to their districts. That's what
they focus on. And every year their
districts want more in different
contexts, in different forms, through
different programs. And that's what
their job is. Their job is to go to DC
to represent their state's interest or
their local district's interests and say
we need to make sure that we're taken
care of as the money flows. And as a
result, everything keeps getting bigger
and bigger and spiraling away. At the
end of the day, the way we economically
save America, if we even have a shot
without money printing, which a lot of
people like Bology and Dalio and others
are now indicating is what's going to
happen is we're going to end up
inflating away or printing away all of
the debt that we've taken on, is to get
to a 33, which Bessant has highlighted
is also his goal. 3% federal deficit to
GDP, 3% GDP growth, and 3% inflation.
And just to give you a sense of where
those numbers sit today, the current
estimate is 6% deficit to GDP, 2.4%
inflation. So we've actually got a
little bit of room to run on inflation.
And GDP growth this year of 1.4%.
So will the tax cuts in this bill
increase GDP growth? Will AI increase
GDP growth? The jury is out. Will the
tariff revenue reduce the deficit more
than the CPO is estimating? And the
increased GDP growth reduce the deficit?
The jury is still out. And what will
happen with inflation? And if the Fed
cuts rates, you're going to see
inflation climb a little bit more. Maybe
the tariffs effect on inflation will
still come through. Some folks have said
that hasn't hit yet, but it will come
later this year. Will we exceed 3%.
Inflation TBD. So, the jury is still
very much out on whether these actions
that are being taken, which Bessant has
declared is going to get us to that 333
number. But then a lot of folks who are
looking at this with a cold stare with
like no political influence with no
political
intention not representing a party not
representing an administration like Ray
Dalio are saying what the there is no
way we're going to get there. Bology I
think you know pointed out in his tweet
his point is actually a very good point
which is our debt is not just the
federal debt but there's other debt that
we're not even accounting for. consumer
debt. I've said this in the past.
There's there's actually corporate debt.
Yeah. The business debt, consumer debt.
There's also state and local debt. And
then the one key number that we never
talk about is the unaccounted for
liabilities in public pension funds,
which is on the order of trillions of
dollars more. So when you add all of
this up, someone's going to pay the
bills on all that debt or we're going to
have to inflate away that debt by
printing money. And at some point, the
trains left the station. A lot of people
are saying, "We're done. there's no way
out of this. So, you know, the Elon
Trump battle is like an interesting kind
of side kurfuffle, but it's not really
the big story here. The big story is the
trains left the station. You know, I
think if we're if we look at this as the
first year that tech really got actively
involved in politics. Obviously, Peter
Teal has been at this for a little bit
longer in his support of JD Vance, the
vice president. I'm looking at this as
like maybe this is year one that Gen X
is truly engaged in making a difference
in Washington and setting an agenda.
That agenda, you know, has 25 years
ahead of it if everybody remains this
engaged, whether it's people like Sachs
or TL or Elon or countless other people.
You know, what is JD Vance's position on
this when he runs for president in four
years? What will these other individuals
Dean Phillips who've had on the program
if he decides to run? I think this is,
you know, we're maybe 5% into the impact
this could be having and already
Adam and Freeberg, I always give you a
lot of credit for this. Two years ago
when you said you started bringing this
up incessantly on the program and to the
point at which it was during it was
during co I started doing this. Yeah. It
was three years ago and um you know like
Yeah. I mean you're to your you're
admitting you've been annoying for three
or four years. I think actually it's
it's the it's the sand that might make
the uh pearl and the oyster. We need to
address this. It's become a top issue of
our time. That's actually success. The
fact that this issue is now the issue of
our time, our budget, our fiscal
responsibility, austerity, that's
actually a really good thing. And yeah,
maybe it doesn't get manifested in this
bill, but maybe it will get manifested
in JD Vance's, you know, presidential
run or Dean Phillips or the both of them
will be discussing it in three and a
half years or three years when they're
on the presidential trail. So that could
be actually the early sign of success
for this. I'm an optimist.
Good luck.
Cap that it's over. Yeah. I mean, we sit
here and we parked on this topic dozens
of times. We keep talking about, oh, we
need to do this, we need to do that. But
at at the end of the day, when the bills
get passed, when Congress takes action,
you get to see where their head's really
at. And I do think that this bill has
indicated that the administration has a
set of incentives, which is they want to
get the actions done that they promised
they would on the campaign trail, and
then Congress has a lot of incentives to
keep the money flowing. And I think
we've seen that in this negotiation to
get this bill done. And I'm not faulting
anyone for it. Congress is looking out
for the interests of the people that
they represent and the White House is
looking out for the people that voted
for them and they said this is what
we're going to do and we have a mandate
and now they're getting it done. And
that's just the way it is. But this is
the key part of the whole storyline
which is at some point once the spending
levels get too high and the country the
individuals and the businesses become
too dependent on that spending y which
is effectively what happens at the end
of every empire. You can't back out. you
can't stop spending and everyone just
votes themselves the dollars. So, it's a
it's a scary moment and I've said it
before, I do think that the GDP growth
is the one path that's left to resolve
this. I don't think we're going to just
cut spending. And so, we need to kind of
be really thoughtful about making sure
we don't hamper GDP growth, particularly
as it relates to AI, which is going to
unlock a lot of new industry, a lot of
new growth, a lot of new opportunity for
jobs. And uh this is why I worry a lot
about this patchwork of regulation in
states making it really difficult for AI
to you only need five more people like
Rand Paul and Tillis right if you get a
couple more of those chimoth this could
be a completely different discussion if
you want to pivot to the next topic I
mean one way to look at this is how the
dollar is trading so the US dollar is
now down 11% this year and that's
against every single major currency here
it is so the dollar was down over 10%
through the first half of 2025. This is
the worst start in over 50 years. Uh
take a look at this chart and you can
see it. It's kind of shocking. Keep in
mind the dollar jumped 7% after Trump
was elected. It kind of peaked in mid
January. So if you take the pre-election
dollar index number 103, it's down 6%
since then. Not record-breaking, but
significant. And obviously economists
are saying tariffs
and global trade are a big piece of
this. And as we just discussed and we'll
keep discussing the US debt load at $37
trillion.
It's more expensive for Americans to
travel abroad and it's less attractive
maybe to invest in the US. Let me just
follow up on the point I just made. But
this is where where the the you know the
what do they say? The chicken comes to
roost. Chickens come home to roost.
Yeah. The chickens have come home to the
rubber meets the road. Yeah. This is
where you start to see the inflationary
effects of the spending and the
spiraling debt is things get more
expensive and your earning power doesn't
increase commensurate with the higher
expenses. So, so what will happen is
you'll see here the US today imports
four to5 trillion a year. So that's 4
to5 trillion that US consumers and
businesses are buying from abroad and
then we import into the US and use those
products and services. So the cost of
all that just went up by 11%. as the
dollar declined in value against the
average of all these currencies. And
that's outside of increase in prices
that may arise because of the tariff
effect where folks may say, "Hey, let's
charge more for tariffs." Whether it's
the cost of tariffs or the cost of the
debt, the dollars that you have to spend
now just went up by 11% to buy the same
thing. And if that compounds and that
continues and your earnings are not
growing and your assets are not growing
commensurate with that, that's where
dollar devaluation happens and where
asset devaluation, income devaluation,
and that's where again we open up the
door to a thing like socialism where
people are like it's now twice as
expensive to buy my groceries. It's
twice as expensive to pay my rent and
I'm not making any more money. Man, I
need a solution. We got to get together
and get the government to make
everything free. And that's why I'm so
convinced that there's a rise in
socialism in this country. Because in
this sort of an inflationary environment
like we're seeing so far this year, you
don't see it in the dollar inflation
numbers. You see it in the dollar
currency numbers. You're going to say,
"Man, I I need an alternative." That's
why the paradox to that is free stuff is
not free. It means increased spending,
which means you're stalling the plane
even more. So, exactly. Any thoughts
here on the dollar? I think the dollar
has devalued 50% in the last 35 or 40
years. So,
I think it's somewhat useful to look at
any single couple of months in time. But
this has been a one-way trade for a very
long time.
And it's probably important to
understand why that is. And I think it
generally has to do with the fact that
the United States finances a lot of
growth and that has been the right
decision.
So unless you see a complete collapse in
the currency, I suspect that this decay
continues to happen. So the question is,
is it a bad thing? And the answer is it
depends because if asset prices increase
faster than the dollar devalues, you're
still ahead. You may not be ahead as
much, but you're still ahead. And if you
look at asset prices in the United
States relative to asset prices any
place else in the world, it is the
flight to quality, which is to say that
it is the thing that everybody wants to
own. And you see that in the equity
markets, you see it in real estate, you
see it in hard assets. So, I don't know.
I think that it's part of the fact that
until we run surpluses and or completely
eliminate the debt, there will always be
a reason to be somewhat short the
dollar. But the reality is that a lot of
people still want to own these assets
more than they want to own any other
asset. And those assets are dollar
denominated. And so as long as that
continues to hold
in the push and pull, it'll be a slow
bleed, but it's probably manageable.
And that's just sort of like the
mathematical trend of it all. So I don't
know, unless there's some like
cataclysmic collapse in asset prices, I
think that this is just a thing that you
have to deal with. It's sort of like the
carry of it all. And it happens. There's
all kinds of other trades where you sort
of pay a carry, and that's okay. Is
there a relationship you can explain to
the audience between the stock market
ripping and the dollar devaluing? Well,
I think the reality is that, you know,
if you think about a country that all of
a sudden has to pay
a tariff. So, let's take the Vietnamese
example that Freeberg said. Let's just
say that they had to prepay one year of
it just to make the math simple so you
can understand. They have to come up
with 23 odd billion dollars I think is
what Freeberg the number that you said
or something like that. So yeah, like 26
billion on 130. Yeah. How do you do
that? Well, the first thing that you're
going to do is you're going to sell
dollar denominated assets that you
already own and you're going to generate
those US dollars and then you're going
to send it to the United States
Treasury. So you may be selling bonds.
So you would think, okay, well that's
not really good for asset prices. Okay.
But then what you quickly realize is
that all of that is far outweighed by
the fact that all the rest of the stuff
that you own, whether it's gold
denominated or whether it's in local
currency denominated, you want to
actually go and buy these dollars
because you want assets that are safe in
turbulence and volatility. And so would
you rather belong the Vietnamese dong or
the Vietnamese equity markets? To a
degree, yes. But if you have obligations
that the Vietnamese government needs to
fund, their central bank is probably
deciding that they need to be long US
bonds and fixed income. And other people
who hold assets in that country are
probably going to be, you know, on a
weighted basis adding exposure to the
United States while all of this stuff is
happening. Why? Because you're seeing
the balance sheet of of America
burgeoning and growing. 23 billion from
Vietnam, tens of billions over here,
tens of billions over there. It all adds
up. So again, I I think that this is
like a very complicated multivariate
problem, but the net takeaway is that
the dollar devaluation is not something
that's new. It is a phenomenon that has
existed through market cycles for 50
plus years. It's a decay that has
happened and will continue to happen. So
I think the way that I think about it is
there's a drag, but can the drag be
overcome by the increase in asset values
of the hard assets that are dollar
denominated? And the answer is yes and
meaningfully so. And so as long as
that's the case, I think you're going to
continue to have a bid for equities. If
all of a sudden the MAG7 decided to
delist and not be American companies and
all of a sudden showed up in the CAC 50
in France, yeah, we'd be in big trouble.
But I don't think that's going to
happen. And so as long as you know
there's American ingenuity and American
supremacy, again, which goes back to the
other thing, which is we can't kill
these golden geese, nor should we kill
the emerging and growing golden goose,
which is AI. And as long as those things
are the same, there will be a constant
bid for American assets. And that will
keep the enterprise of America going for
far longer than most people would guess.
up to a point, but pull up pull up this
chart that I said. This is the Yeah, I
think that this is why Buffett sort of
speaks about this in these extremely
long arcs that you're always ultimately
going to be on the wrong side of the
trade betting against the United States.
And it's probably important to then say,
well, what would a boundary condition
be? I don't think the boundary condition
is the dollar. I actually don't think
the boundary condition is the debt. I
think the boundary condition is if
something were to happen with the
quality of the human capital inside of
the United States and its inability to
innovate, then we're probably in
trouble. But even that story will take
50 to 100 years to play out. I just
think for most of our lifetimes,
this is a safe trade because it's a
winning trade.
Free. Well, I mean, it's winning if you
can put up with the currency dropping
11% in six months. And if you pull up
this chart and and I get it, Jimoth, I I
agree. But I mean, look, businesses are
booming in India. Businesses are booming
in China. Businesses are booming in
other countries now in the way that
businesses used to boom strictly in the
US. There are other markets that seem to
be having their day. And you can see
this number, which I think is a really
striking number. In the last 10 years,
US treasuries held by foreign holders
has declined from 34%. This is a good%.
I mean, it's good in one context. You're
But my point is people, foreign
countries and foreign businesses and
foreign investors aren't holding US
treasuries as much as nothing bad.
There's nothing bad about this chart.
This is only a good thing. This chart
shows that people don't want to hold US
treasuries. No, this chart shows that
foreign governments and central banks
have less and less influence on the
direction of American fiscal and
monetary policy. Better. That's better.
So, who's going to buy our debt?
It turns out that when you're the
largest economy and you're growing,
there's a lot of internal people that
that will do it,
right? So, I mean, that's a key point
here, which is means that the debt's
going to get more expensive if there's a
smaller market. That's not necessarily
true either. Okay. Well, one thing's
true is that we're investing a lot of
money and there's a lot of dry powder.
the amount of money being invested into
data centers and AI and the amount of
cash that's moving into investment
specifically in our borders that has to
be accreative, right? Yeah. The amount
of cash in money market funds probably
exceeds the sum total of all of the
equity markets around the world. That's
insane. Well, and it's like and now
people are talking about building 10,
20, 30 billion worth of data centers
and, you know, nuclear power plants
again. So, there's something going on
here with American exceptionalism.
Speaking of American exceptionalism,
Harvard is uh still battling it out with
Trump and their $50 billion endowment is
uh being questioned
and it actually relates in many ways to
what we're seeing in private companies
tech and VC. It's going to take a little
bit of a securous route to get there.
Since Trump has been inaugurated,
Harvard borrowed 1.2 billion due to
uncertainty around their federal
funding. Remember, Trump administration
canceled over $2 billion worth of
research grants to Harvard. Earlier this
week, the administration formally
accused Harvard of tolerating
anti-semitism on campus. The White House
said it will file a civil rights lawsuit
via the DOJ ASAP unless Harvard comes
into compliance and does a deal with
Trump. Here's what they're looking for.
Trump White House cancelling DEI
initiatives, third party oversight of
admissions, mandatory actions to combat
anti-semitism. Harvard has declined to
do a deal so far. And uh you right might
remember House Representative Elise
Stefonic. She asked the FCC two weeks
ago to investigate Harvard's financial
disclosures. So she got into the
disclosures when they set up that $1
whatever billion dollar line of uh
credit and loan. They did a bond deal. I
think they issued like $750 million of
bonds. Yeah. So those 750 million bond
offering on April 9th was sent out and 6
days later they sent out a supplemental
disclosure with more information about
the White House civil rights
investigation which he claims Jason dire
financial picture Harvard's cooked and I
think this is really good for America
explain it turns out and there's been a
lot of people that's posted about this
on X but there continues to be rampant
Title 9 violations with respect to
admissions I think creme
Nick, you can probably find it. I think
he published one that Colia was
continuing to discriminate against Asian
students. Harvard's original case was
against Asian students. There was a
bunch of woke stuff at other Ivy League
schools like UPEN. There's all this
rampant anti-semitism. It all needs to
get fixed. And so I think that if you
get a deal done, Harvard will have to
capitulate. I think President Trump
holds all the leverage in all the cards
and there's nothing mathematically that
Harvard can do. They can stall for
probably another year and a half, but at
some point they will not have the budget
to sustain themselves and they're going
to get into a huge world of hurt. What
they will have to do in order to finance
their budget in probably 18 months is
start to actively sell their private
equity portfolio which by the way from
2019 to this year almost doubled from 20
to 40%. So an insane asset allocation
frankly an asset misallocation at the
top of the market to the most illquid
asset class. And when people sniff this
out, what they're going to do is Harvard
was able to sell a billion dollars
recently of private equity stuff in
managers that they didn't want to
support anymore at a 7% discount.
There is no smart money on the street
that's going to look at any private
equity portfolio from Harvard without
asking for 20 25 30 35 40% discount
because your back will be totally
against the wall. And if you don't ask
for that, you're just a bad businessman.
So, if you put all of these things
together, they're going to need to
reestablish federal funding. But in
order to do it, I think the president's
been very, very clear. And for whatever
reason, they've refused to want to
address these issues. But the Ivy
League, there's just something
fundamentally broken. Well, and
Freeberg,
the Wall Street Journal, reported on
Wednesday that Harvard would face a
billion dollar budget shortfall every
year if Trump followed through on his
funding cuts and tax hikes. He was also
uh saber rattling that he would get rid
of their nonprofit status or maybe
change how the endowments worked. A lot
of uh tools I think that he could deploy
here and uh excise tax by the way in the
BBB that taxes foundation assets. I
don't know what the final language was
but there is a there was a version that
I saw where excise tax on foundations
was upwards of 8% a year. I don't know
if that was the final version, but
that's an enormous amount. Let's just
say it's half that. Let's just say it's
4%. But if you're paying 4% tax on your
endowment every year, it all of a sudden
starts to add up, that's like, you know,
for Harvard, like 2.5 extra billion
dollars a year that they have to pay.
And uh Freeberg reportedly Harvard is at
the table and in discussions with the
White House after a couple of months of
defiance. What's your take on this? Is
this an important priority for America
and for the Trump administration? Is it
a sideshow? What are your thoughts on
the larger ramifications of this? Let me
just suspend the brand and history and
legacy of Harvard for a second. Sure.
And just talk about these
call them prestigious higher education
institutions. What are the two primary
functions of these institutions? The
first is to educate students and the
second is to conduct research or to
create facilities for research. Remember
these institutions do not direct
research. They recruit and enable
researchers who apply for grants to get
funding to do their research and then
they educate kids. I think the internet
was the first leg on the stool to break
higher education.
The internet democratized access to
information and knowledge. You can watch
MIT graduate courses. All of the core
kind of educational content that is
delivered in prestigious
higher education institutions has been
largely democratized and is broadly
available for free on the internet.
That's an incredible transition that's
happened for humanity, for society, for
the world. AI is the next leg of the
stool to break. And I think that AI may
actually break education. It may break
higher education and then eventually it
may make its way all the way down to
childhood. In terms of rethinking from
first principles, how do we educate? How
is an individual getting educated and
what are the other benefits they get
from an educational system besides just
core domain knowledge? There's also
socialization and experience with
project-based work. But I think that AI
fundamentally rewrites the ability for
an individual to get a good quality
education. And we could see kids in
Africa and kids in South Asia getting
the equivalent of a Harvard graduate
school degree at a cost of zero through
personalized tutoring enabled through AI
and the ubiquitous access to knowledge
and information. So that core function
of the university I think is broken and
they're now starting to reconcile what
that actually means for the long-term
viability of all of these higher
educational institutions in the United
States. The research function I think is
also being rewritten around the world in
Europe and in China and in Asia. There
are independent research institutions
that get research funding that can show
up and say, "Hey, this institution is
just being used to run research. It
doesn't necessarily need to be within an
educational framework. It can be an
independent research institution that
focuses on either a topic or a domain.
So, I do think we're going to see more
and more independent research funding
happening with the grants that come out
from the federal government, from
nonprofits, from endowments and
foundations that fund research. So, I
think that there's a real reckoning
underway. It's almost like these guys
have created a monopoly. They've
accumulated this capital which allows
them to build these great buildings,
attract these great researchers, and
then get the research funding to fund
those researchers and then use that to
raise more capital in their endowment
and build the next building and keep
this thing growing. And I think that
that's breaking. I have one question for
you. I like where you're going with
this, but there's one hole that I would
like you to address, which is I don't
think any of that is nearly as valuable
to most of the kids applying or the
parents forcing the kids to apply as it
is brand and then the cycle that
employers put back. So that how do you
fix that loop?
Yeah. Well, I get it. like you can
YouTube your way to something and you
can AI your way to something but at the
end of the day Goldman Sachs loves to
recruit from Harvard and that's a really
big deal because that's a wonderful
company. I think the Teal Fellows
program has highlighted that you don't
get exceptional performance by
exclusively going to people that have
higher education degrees from
prestigious institutions. The Teal
Fellows program, which for those who
don't know, offered significant funding
uh to kids that are coming out of high
school, 18-y olds. And I think the Teal
Fellows, Jason, you probably know better
than I do what they've created, right?
Like, yeah, a lot of startups and No,
but like amazing startups like But how
do you deal with 500 million kids
graduating a year globally with no with
no brand differentiation? I think that's
an important question. So, how did Teal
Fellows do it? And how do you hire
Chimoth? You just did a program for 8090
to to find people, right? Yeah. Well,
yeah. I mean, we we did a coding
challenge.
I guess I I guess what I'm saying is
though that Well, so what's the
alternative to that coding challenge? I
mean, yeah. No, no. The best way to
determine Fredber to answer your
question, the best way to determine if a
person can do a job if you don't want to
outsource it to a a logo like Harvard or
Stanford, which are have worked in the
past, is to watch them do the job. That
is the number one day to do it. And the
way to do that is to hire them for
projects and or do internships. And that
means you have to invest in what's
called professional development. And
that slows companies down. So the hack
is to just pick a logo. But I for
example in our venture firm created a
training program for associates and we
invested in that and we hire three at a
time and two of them make it on
typically sometimes just one who hit our
notes and the other ones move on. Uh and
so I I think you have to invest in your
own professional development in your
organization and the organizations that
do that then succeed and have a massive
competitive advantage because they have
their own training program and way to
evaluate talent. That's one way. Doing a
a codathon and scoring people is another
way. Having an AI interviewer is another
way. So you can interview 10,000 kids
instead of interview the 50 that you
chose out of Harvard because Harvard is
your first filter. So the real question,
Chimath, is like what are the mechanisms
by which employers are going to create
new filtering systems? And I think that
there's a lot that we just we just kind
of went through three examples, but I
don't know if the brand holds over time.
Well, here's the thing that what you're
saying doesn't address. There are just a
lot of kids that aren't ready to bloom
when they're 18 or 19 or 20 or 21.
And I'm not sure that, you know, I'll
just take myself as an example. I was a
marginal performer in university,
but I had co-op. I did well in co-op
jobs. Those co-op jobs were because
these employers only wanted to recruit
from the University of Wateroo. Now, if
I had to compete with 50,000 kids, I'm
pretty sure I would not have gotten it
cuz I was a bit of a layout. But then,
you know, when I got into the
professional working world after a
couple of years, everything just kind of
clicked. So I think the the problem that
we'll have is in the absence of brand
it's just going to be very difficult to
differentiate oneself and filter people
and I think that what Jason says becomes
the huge problem which is then the
burden of professional development for
all these young kids is extremely heavy.
So I think that the idea of all of this
tooling is good and it's necessary but I
think it's insufficient. there's
something else that we need because I
think that being able to differentiate
yourself in a coding challenge is not
the future either. It's for a very very
narrow class of person. Look, project
based work, social adjustment there
there there are clearly other really
important skills and development cycles
that are needed for people. It's not
just dumping knowledge into your brain.
This isn't like the matrix where you can
just turn on the knowledge and and gain
it. And so I do agree. I think that
there are other systems by which that
will happen and those systems will will
will output filters. I'm just not sure
it's the same system that we've used for
the last 250 years. It's not I think
that's the the really interesting part
of the discussion we've got to Freeberg
is that we had an incredible system of a
series of layered I you know iconography
that indicated hey you get 10 people
from this group 100 from this group and
you slot them in and hey your company's
going to operate and then parents don't
have to worry the students don't have to
worry nor do the companies in this new
world the companies have an opportunity
by creating professional development and
you know what the people who couldn't
get into Harvard because they didn't
have the connections, they weren't
legacy or they didn't have the
wherewithal to pay for SAT tutors or
whatever that it took to hack
your way in and have a legacy family
member or whatever racist policies they
had and didn't let Asian people in
because they didn't have the right
personalities. All that nonsense goes
away and that actually benefits their
grades were their grades were too good.
Right. Exactly. Their performance was
too high. In all fairness, you did
wrong. It's like the dumb It's like the
dumbest thing I've ever heard. But
here's the good news, anybody can build
a project in the world and refine their
skills right now based on all the
information that's on the internet. And
you and I, Chimath, are part of that
group of people. We made our own luck.
We made our own projects. We had some
level of grit and and autonomy and
self-reliance to do that. Uh and I you
know the feedback I got from our
previous discussion about this is
everybody talking about how poor people
as a group can never ever strive and
never build anything. The truth is it's
the easiest it's ever been to build a
company to build a project and to be
independent as a creator of a product or
service in the world. It's the easiest
it's ever been. It requires the least
capital and the least amount of time.
So, we're selling a narrative to people
that they're helpless when in fact they
are super super empowered. The only
thing you can't do is put yourself into
$200,000 in debt because you'll never
get out of it. Mhm.
I actually think this is a huge
beautiful opportunity to reset the
system. But it it's not going to be like
going to, you know, a supermarket and
picking the brands you want and then
filling positions. You're going to have
to be self-reliant for all the students
out there. And that's what Peter Teal
got right. You got to give a shout out
to Peter Teal here. I think Freeberg he
when he did the teal fellowship the way
they picked people was their they had a
mission to accomplish something in the
world and they were making progress
towards it. That's actually the criteria
they used. Did you have enough inner
resolve to actually pick a mission and
did you actually do anything to steer
yourself towards it? And when you make
it a competitive, you know, sort of
program like that, they just picked the
people who picked the most interesting
missions and had made the most progress.
But there's definitely going to be a
hole left in society if these degrees do
not correlate with performance and
reality. All right. On Tuesday,
Grammarly, I'm a huge fan of that
product, acquired Superhuman. Uh that's
that amazing superfast AI email tool
from Raul of which I was the first
investor in. Uh superhuman had raised
114 million was valued at $825 million
during peak zerp according to Reuters.
Superhum has annual revenue of $35
million and Grammarly seems to be
building a little bit of a suite of AI
workplace tools. They bought KOD was not
an investor in but I am a huge fan of
that product as well. It's similar to
notion, another product I'm a huge fan
of. They bought KOD back in December.
And then on top of that, Figma filed
their S1 Q1 revenues, 228 million.
Remember, they were going to get bought
by Adobe before before it got stopped.
And uh they have 13 million monthly
active users, a billion and a half in
cash, no debt, and uh turns out CEO
Dylan Field has 75% voting power. So
he's in founder mode. Very nice. And
also a teal fellow. really interesting
cat. I've had him on uh my other pod.
Figma is going to try to raise 1.5
billion in their IPO. That would match
Coreweave. That was the biggest tech IPO
of the year so far. And we are on a
heater. Circle went public that was up
7x uh from its IPO peak. And Chime went
public slightly higher than its IPO
price. You had E Toro. Uh Hinge Health
also went public. Wealthfront which I
was an angel investor in. They just
filed to go public. Yum yum. and uh
bunch of M&A transactions. We talked
about Door Dash made two purchases. Sam
Alman bought two companies at OpenAI
and uh tons of M&A happening at the same
time. According to Poly Market, 52%
chance of a rate cut in September, 46%
chance of no change. So, we're
definitely not getting an increase
according to the sharp money. And I
think Pal said he would have cut if
there weren't the tariff,
you know, curveball thrown into the
system, which is, I think, what most of
us thought. And Chimath, you talked
about all this sideline cash sitting
there in money market accounts. Markets
at an all-time high. Uber blew past 88,
so I should be retired right now. What
are your thoughts on M&A IPOs? Feels
like, man, we've got a
really frisky hot market right now. Does
it make you nervous or does it feel like
this is where we should have been all
along and that Biden maybe was putting a
headwind against all this? Yeah. So,
here's the crux of the issue. I think
this is the intersection of a lot of
really interesting things happening
right now. You have Meta giving
individual human beings 300 to$500
million packages like their NBA first
team allstars.
Open AAI, their revenue numbers just
leaked. They're forecasting 13 billion
in 25 2025, spiking to 125 billion in
2029. You have Anthropic,
their revenue by 2027 is
forecasted to be about 35 billion. So
what does all of this tell you?
To be honest, it's telling me that
the state of software is a little
unclear.
Meaning,
I actually believe the open AI and
anthropic numbers. I understand why
Facebook is now spending as if there's
an existential risk. And I think the
existential risk is that these models
could be so foundational to how social
experiences and work are done that it
starts to absorb a lot of other stuff.
So the question is how do other tools
fit into a workflow when these things
become so central to how people both
enjoy their free time as well as spend
their productive time. And I think when
you look at that,
you look at Figma, what I would say is
on the surface in the absence of these
AI businesses, I would say, man, what a
gang busters business. Growing by 40
something% a year at this scale. They're
adjusted. I think operating margins are
18%. I don't like adjusted because it's
adjusted for stockbased comp. I don't
know what it is when you add that back
in. But the point is it's a phenomenal
business. The question that I think the
institutional investor will have is what
am I buying?
And does this revenue growth
sit adjacent
to core model revenue growth? Because
the big question that we have yet to
answer and this is not a Figma specific
issue. It is an industry-wide issue is
how much do these foundational models
absorb into what they do for what you
pay them? And I don't think we know the
answer to that yet. So if all of these
things just become excellent coding
tools, then all of this highle software
is free and clear, right? It's it's it's
in the safe zone. But I think the
problem is we don't know that that's the
case, you know? And so I think in the
IPO, what you're probably going to see
is people approach this company the same
way that they approach all non-core AI
IPOs,
which is that it's a business that you
love to own for a year or two, but if
there's a depression in valuation, it's
because people cannot underwrite years
three, four, and five. M uh Freeberg, do
you believe that the Star Trek
communicator just doubleclick on your
pendant, ask the computer to do
something means there's one piece of
software in the world that does
everything and all this long tale of
business software just goes away? And if
so, on what timeline?
No. Okay. Yeah. I mean, this speaks to
revenue quality, revenue stability. I
think you used the term how brittle is
it Chimath? What are your thoughts on
Chimath's angle here of that unknown?
Where would you fall either way? Are we
going to have a suite of products or
does it Yeah, I mean more narrow. Well,
it depends for what application. I think
Figma's done a classic like land and
expand in terms of who they initially go
after and then what the suite of tools
that they offer does. By expanding that,
they now can offer a bunch of different
people within an organization a set of
tools to help them all collaboratively
develop products and services. And you
can see that in some of the numbers.
Revenue growth is on the order of 40
some odd percent. They ran a 43%
operating cash flow margin in Q1. So in
Q1 of this year, Figma generated $95
million of free cash flow. They've got
net revenue retention of like 130%. So
this land and expand is proven out and
there's real durability it looks like to
this business for now. But to Chimat's
point like what does three to four years
from now look like? Does this get
absorbed into chat GPT? You could say
that about any software at any point in
time. I think the thing that makes this
AI era different is that that
transformative shift can happen
overnight where suddenly someone else
launches a service it completely obvious
because of what AI can do. But I think
Figma's done a great job staying ahead
of the curve. the free money I think
trade instead of having to bet up or
down Jason on AI, I would if I could get
like $50 or $100 million of Figma, I
would probably long it and I would short
an equivalent quantum of Adobe and I
would just book the spread. And I think
you make a ton of money that way. That's
a safer trade because, you know, even if
the AI model thing comes around the
corner, we don't see it, the person
who's going to take a retrade on
valuation faster than Figma will be
Adobe. And so you'll be hedged and
you'll probably make money that way. We
look at something in terms of not just
the quality of revenue in our investment
firm. We look at the durability of it.
Like can this exist two, three, four
years from now and is the value acrewing
so much to the user that the amount
they're paying they just never think I
should swap this out. I should replace
it. Right? And and the revenue
durability of your iPhone is a good
example of it. Despite people not
renewing your your phone every year, you
still can't think. There's no better
option than an iPhone right now. Even my
Google Pixel 9 fold, as great as it is,
it just feels like that revenue is still
durable. I wonder when it becomes less
durable. Can I push back on this? I
think that the I think the question that
it brings up is not whether the
individual person can whip out a card
and pay for it in four years. It's
whether that individual person actually
exists.
And so the with that amount of money to
spend. No, no, no, no, no. Meaning like
we don't know what the layoff cycle and
the pattern of layoffs inside of
companies may be with AI. Meaning if we
all become more generalized
skilled workers
and there may be many many many more
companies
then the odds are more likely that you
provision highly skilled vertically
specific work to a set of agents. Yes.
If that's true, then the tools that
created incredible durability
when the organizational chart of a
company supported vertical
specialization
won't exist when instead you'd have
horizontal
capabilities that you work across. An
example, I think that that's the big
question that AI will will bring to
bear. And again, it's not going to be
overnight, but that's where people will
frontr run those trades and the market
specifically if they sniff this out.
We'll want to price that 24 and 36
months forward and say this is what the
end state looks like. A way to sort of
for people to understand that is imagine
you outsource HR and you don't have a
sixperson HR company like you talked
about two years ago and then you don't
need HR software, right? So your point
each group has a set of SAS software and
tools it uses. If that group goes away
because it's just abstracted into the AI
machine outsourced it there's nobody to
buy it in the organization. There's
nobody going to the CFO saying I need
this HR software. I need this project
management software. I think it's a
really interesting point and the way as
you for a founder Freeberg to avoid this
is to have you know a product that
services many different needs for those
customers or that organization. I think
that's why I like these tools like KOD
and notion is they kind of infect many
different departments in the
organization. Right? This has been an
amazing summer episode of the All-In
podcast. We weren't going to do it this
week, but we said, you know what, we
wanted to talk about a couple of issues
for we wanted to see each other and uh
it's the slowest news week of the year,
but we wanted to get together and hash
out some of these issues. Anybody got
big plans for the weekend and any uh
recommendations for people? I did some
books to read. You guys got any shows or
books you're reading right now? Any any
albums you're listening to? Any things
you're obsessed with? I'm reading uh
Modern Poker Theory by Michael Asavvito.
Oh, really? This goes into GTO and that
kind of stuff. Yeah, fabulous book. Any
What's your big takeaway thus far? Do
you have something that's you you wrote
a note about or you highlighted? No, I
mean like I'm I'm I'm just tuning up my
game. Always tuning up my game. Oh,
you're doing a little tuni tune. Well, I
mean, I I hope is that because we have
something going on in November.
You want to do Well, we can't talk about
that. Well, I don't know if this if this
poker thing happens, maybe we can't play
poker anymore in America. I don't know.
Oh, yeah. The big We didn't mention
this, but the big bill says I don't
know. Maybe you can't be gambling. We
need We didn't talk about it, but man,
that's a reason to get up in arms about
this bill. If it gets rid of the poker
ledger, what do we do with the ledge?
No, the ledger. And the ledger will
survive. Actually, actually, this
reinforces the value of the ledger
because you'll just run the ledger
infinitely. You may have to have an
infinite ledge. Never settle. Never
settle. I was thinking my proposal for
the ledge was if you're under a 100red
dimes, you roll. If you're over a 100
dimes, you clear, you know, like each
year at the end of the year because it's
just not worth the You know what I'm
saying? It's not worth the the tax
implications. Well, we may have to
create like an offshore blocker, fund it
with stable coins. I mean, the whole
thing is going to really complicated.
Our lawyers and accountants are going to
have a field day with this just so we
can flip coins and play bomb pots.
Freeberg, you watching any shows or
movies? Maybe you could um maybe you
could give us one of your great deep
pulls for a science fiction film that
people should watch this weekend if they
want to get some joy. Maybe Silent
Running. You like Silent Running? Run.
Logan's Run. Silent Running. Those are
good cho7.
Yeah. and and I think I watched the Bob
Dylan flick on the flight to Italy. Oh,
shout out to Timothy Shalame. What a
great film. I mean, he Okay, I have to
be I have to be honest with you. I was
not a super fan of Bob Dylan's music
before. Yeah. But then I was like, wow,
the body of work is really impressive.
Let me give you two and sorry and Joan
Bayz
and their their music together.
Incredible. I mean, let me give you I
was a little short on Joan Bayas too and
I was like this was a mistake. I'm just
going to give you three albums to listen
to. Blood on the tracks. I want you to
listen to Blood on the Tracks. Then I
want you to listen to uh Infidels
another which is like his best of the8s.
Infidels and Blood on the Tracks. Those
are two in and Empire Burlesque a third
one. Empire Burlesque and Infidels from
the 80s. This is Dylan at the like
really interesting height of creativity.
And then blood on the tracks post his
60s7s folk rock stuff and that
transition. People consider blood on the
tracks the seminal album. I will also
give you a deep pull of street legal
with an incredible track changing of the
guard. This you'll love Chimath because
you also like the war on drugs. War on
drugs very influenced by that era. So
you got blood on the track street legal
infidels and empire burles. Those are
Jal's Dylan choices. I hate drugs. War
on drugs. Dylan do drugs? I mean, it was
famous that he I think he was on speed
for a little bit in the 70s reportedly
and that's where he had a lot of
productive days. Um, but I think he uh
introduced the Beatles to LSD was the
rumor. Freeberg, your thoughts on my
Dylan selections or do you have one of
your own?
I'll leave it to you, Jal. You got any
uh movies or something?
I did recently rewatch The Arrival by
Denny Villain Nov. How do you pronounce
his last name? Villain. Vill. Oh, he's
doing the new Bond. That's going to be
the new Bond. All right, everybody. We
will see you next time on the world's
number one podcast. Saxy Poo will be
back.
Love you, besties. Love you, boys.
We'll let your winners ride.
Rainman David
and we open sourced it to the fans and
they've just gone crazy with it. Love
you, queen of kin.
[Music]
Besties are gone.
That is my dog taking your driveways.
Oh man, my appetiter will meet. You
should all just get a room and just have
one big huge orgy cuz they're all just
useless. It's like this like sexual
tension that they just need to release
somehow.
beak. Wet your feet. Your feet.
We need to get merch.
[Music]
I'm going all in.